2026 May 6 CMA - Flip Property and
Land w Craig
2026-07-29 21:42:35
00:00:02 Speaker 1
Okay, we got some awesome properties we’re taking a look at today. Flip a couple
flips uh properties and the land. Um okay,
00:00:11 Speaker 2
Sorry I resent it.
00:00:13 Speaker 1
So, here we go plug it in here. Two one five, four, three, five one This is in Springville
point nine, three acre. Okay.
00:00:30 Speaker 1
Very interesting.
00:00:32 Speaker 2
So this one’s interesting because he he’s kind of advertising it as a home that can be
flipped. It’s a two bed, one bath, and then it’s a really long lot. And so you could
potentially subdivide it behind where that cul de sac is and add like a little stub
road, and then a lot on either side. I think they they put it in the pictures.
00:00:54 Speaker 1
Well, okay uh okay yeah I’ve got some commentary on this already but I’llum, Okay,
that’s interesting. Very, very, very deep. Um, I’ll tell you stub road oh from right
here. That’s why this would work. I was going to say this is not going to work. This
can work. The reason why I said it was not going to work is you are looking at this
picture here. If you get, if usually when you have a flag lot, which is what this would
be behind this home.
00:01:28 Speaker 1
Most cities only let you put one home off of a flag instead of two, and it’s like, “Ah,
it’s not going to work.” Plus the the width on this is it’s so small up front. The width
on being able to get by right here at this location. T here is not even a width to do it.
You have to have a certain width on your flag road as well. I am like, "I don’t think
he’s going to fly, ", but seeing this picture that can work and And, then so you have
this lot accessed only from four hundred east. You have, These two lots accessed
from here, and yeah, this this one’s okay. And here is the interior of the home,

which is straight up one hundred percent flip material. In fact, for this price, you
could almost even just knock down the house. And here is the reason why. Let me
show you the math. This is super quick math one aspect of this here. So let’s go
back to this picture here so three lots what.
00:02:25 Speaker 1
Would be the retail value of three finished lots in Springville, and I don’t know their
exact sizes, but they’re roughly going to be they’re going to be more than quarter
acres. At least a couple of these. I mean, they’re they’re going to be decent sizes. So
um let me show you um some some interesting stuff. Okay, there’s a lot of cool
stuff. I’m glad I’m glad this is one. We’re going to take a look at today. So you you’re
going to see some fun things from me. So I’m just going to take a look at land
because I can give you a quick and dirty um. Valuation on the land. So, I am still
going to go with these four statuses, but at this point, I am just going to, i am going
to focus on the city of Springville. Um, just to give you an idea, so we have fifty of
these. I am going back a year ; land doesn’t move quite as fast as homes in terms of
like value. I have no problem going back about a year, and we haven’t seen much
movement in the market anyway. Now some of these are like wow, one point, eight,
four acre well. These are up in the boonies.
00:03:22 Speaker 1
Like that, and there’s going to be different reasons, utilities and otherwise access
that are going to decrease those. So you’re going to ignore all that stuff. Um, and
now I’m going to get to where it’s more like the normal stuff. Um, And and you can
see here, oh, let me go back down here. So man I could exclude commercial from
this. Um this isn’t a lux. This has got to be a more luxury area. There are. Point three
nine acre lots selling for three fifty five, but and that’s for sure the wrong
application. That’s absolutely the wrong application. I hate when they do that. Okay,
so this is up near the canyon, sort of in a nice area. These third acre lot subdivision
these are selling in the three hundred s, three fifty s. I mean, that’s you know some
more prime land. We’re not in that area. Here is some one acres. These are going to
be up in.
00:04:19 Speaker 1
Uh oh, that’s the one we’re looking at right now actually. Um, these are up in the
canyon and we can’t really rely on those. I’d really like to find more of the quarter
acres and I’m not seeing that. The problem is see directions, these are all going to
be up in the boonies up here. Um, and it’s not going to make as much sense or like
then now here’s a quarter acre lot. And this is hopefully in a more normal
neighborhood that actually still is not because Hollow Creek’s nice. Um here you
have let’s see Says C directions. We don’t have very many normal lots in here. Um,
let’s see here. Let’s just do this. Let’s take a map. Actually, I should have excluded C.
I really just want to see this stuff in here, like I want to see what’s in town, um, not
this stuff. Just want to see what’s in town now these What is this one here?

00:05:19 Speaker 1
Lot 21.09 acres. I can’t really trust exactly what’s going on with that. This one looks a
little more reliable, .07 acre for 130. And that’s in a planned unit community. Those
are tiny postage stamp plots. We’re going to be worth more than that. These are
just in the wrong location, But this more the size we’re looking at. This this sort of
actually it’s point nine nine acres. So, what I don’t know, I really i don’t actually like
the comps we pulled up in here. These are not accurate. Um, These you need, these
are better, and that’s why you can’t trust those. Um obviously, have the canyon. You
can’t trust either. So let me let me refine this real quick.
00:06:16 Speaker 1
Um, let’s just go to view map. Sorry, I our analysis we might we might be here a
little longer today, but I just wanted to show you guys some stuff that’s important.
Um, So Spanish Fork, let’s let’s look at Spanish Fork proper and see if we can get
more normal comps because Spanish Fork is probably going to be worth a little less
than than Springville, but it’s going to be close enough. And so I’m okay to come.
Look at these and see if I can get any that are.
00:06:46 Speaker 1
More normal. Let’s see if I can just so here you are, two acre lot. Oh, that’s and that’s
in a more normal location. So it’s listed for two forty nine, um a point, three, six acre
lot and I’m good with that location. So point three six acre sold for two seventy um
quarter acre under contract, two seventy um. These are probably superior in their
location, frankly. And then these quarter acres. So these are basically it’s two fifty
and above is where you’re looking at that. And so I don’t I don’t think here at this
location where we’re close to State. Street, I just don’t think you’re going to get two
fifty out of those lots. Um So I’m going to discount say these are worth two hundred
each and and worst case scenario, one seventy five that should be a screaming deal
at one seventy five. And so um.
00:07:45 Speaker 1
One fifty would be a crazy screaming deal. And so, these are so this whole property
is being sold for three hundred. And so, Your cost to develop it. This already has
utilities ;. You literally have to bring finish that road. And then put utilities into these.
How much is that going to cost? I usually budget eighty thousand dollars per lot.
Maybe that’s what you need to do. I don’t know; it’s probably less, but let’s just call it
eighty thousand a lot. So, if the retail value of this is one hundred fifty thousand a
lot, which is really cheap, so it’s probably going to be more. But that would be four
hundred and fifty. Subtract out eighty thousand three hundred and seventy. And I
think honestly these lots are probably one seventy five to two hundred. It’s probably
where those value is. I wouldn’t guess more than that, But let’s just say, one seventy
five to two hundred You are one seventy five times three That’s.
00:08:41 Speaker 1
Um, four fifty plus another seventy five is five twenty five. Five twenty five minus

eighty thousand. Oh, sorry, I guess it’s eighty thousand per lot minus one sixty. So
that’s where that’s where I am getting off on my math. But so so anyway, So might if
five, twenty five minus one sixty still, that’s a still. It’s a really, really good deal. T
here is value in there and and I don’t think it’s going to be eighty thousand per lot
because I just don’t think it will be. But, but let’s say, but I can say okay. So if there
were lots worth one fifty each, one sixty for development, you are at two ninety.
And that’s because I listed it at three hundred. Now that being said, I think. So now
here is what we’re going to start doing some different math here. So that’s see how
so you can see sir how I quickly just did the land valuation on that. How and Nathan
that’s sort of how I did like when you sent over that river bottoms one.
00:09:39 Speaker 1
To me a few days ago, I uh, anyway sort of similar. I was just pulling up the lots in
the area and found similar lots and was able to deduce what that lot land value
would be. So any questions on that?
00:09:53 Speaker 2
I do have one question. So those lots have not been subdivided yet. Like they have a
a pre, I can’t remember what they call it like aum a pre approval submission, like
basically they have the paperwork. That they would submit to the county, but it
hasn’t been done yet. I’m wondering if you think it would be difficult to get that
approved, like what the likelihood would be, or if that changes the value since it’s
not like three distinct plots. Like right now, it’s just one big plot.;. They’re just
advertising it as something that you could split up.
00:10:27 Speaker 1
Yeah, yeah, that’s a great question. And I bet they’re going to have highest and best.
I bet they’re going to have multiple offers. So there is risk. So let’s see this
subdivision pre-application summary disclosure and acknowledgement of lead-
based paint. So, um, here is where your risk is. Um, see side work must be spelled
out long for interviews at current okay.
00:11:05 Speaker 1
I'll explain that here in a second. I’m just reading through this. South boundary has
some discrepancies, boundary line adjustments, shifted out of correct position. The
other county has a small sliver piece on the south side. Um, twelve foot drainage
easement runs along. Essentially, it’s a essential first step in our records. Um,
impact fees applicable to new lots. Yep. So here, here’s where you’ve got some
additional costs as well. So so right here.
00:12:02 Speaker 1
This this lot one was grandfathered many years ago when it was built to not have
curb gutter sidewalk. However, new code and this is very common. I ran into this
Pleasant Grove when I did a subdivision. If you create a three lot subdivision out of
this, the city can then say, Hey, oh, you are subdividing great. We are now going to

require you to improve lot one. And now you got to put in curb gutter sidewalk. So
now you’ve added a little bit to your price. So now you’ve added. I think these lots
are worth one hundred and seventy five to two hundred. I think a lot of developers
are going to assume these at two, some may even say two twenty five. Like
honestly, you might be able to get away with two twenty five. But, let’s just call it
one seventy five to be very, very, very risk averse. So that comes in at five, twenty
five eighty thousand per lot for these lots for development is one hundred sixty.
And then you are going to have to now subtract out the curb gutter sidewalk up
here. I don’t know what that’s going to cost, but let’s just call another twenty
thousand and I don’t know what that is. It’s one hundred eighty thousand.
00:12:57 Speaker 1
Um, and so t here is still some developer profit in there, but here are some risks.
The boundaries are uncertain. So, Here is what I normally do : Nathan before i even
before I buy a property, I will put it under contract with enough time to where I can
go to the city, get and get it fully approved as a subdivision. So now it looks like it’s
zoned; we’d have to check the zoning. I am going to assume right now that the
zoning allows this. If it doesn’t, you have to go through a rezone process. The city
council can arbitrarily deny it. There is no rezoning that they’re automatically
required to approve. So, the city council say, “No, we want a one acre lot there.
Sorry,” and you are done. And, then you just spent three hundred thousand dollars,
and you are not going to get that on a flip. And so t here is risk now Let’s assume
the zoning is already there. If the zoning’s in place, your risk goes way down, but I
would still check.
00:13:54 Speaker 1
During due diligence, you’ve got to verify. Like I still want the subdivision to be
approved, So you can submit the subdivision and you can run into a number of
things where they could say, well, like you could run into sewer issues, water
looping issues, boundary line issues. A cces s : You got to make sure that you have
to check with city engineer for access issues. They may they may come in and say,
hey, you need to come in. And we’re going to require you to round out this cul de
sac. And now that which I wouldn’t be surprised. They’re probably going to require
that, and then that takes up a little bit of your building space. Okay, that’s fine. But
anyway, it sounds like there are boundary issues with the neighbors. You got to get
those all squared away. And I’d like to get all that squared away before I close. Now
these guys probably are not going to do that because if it’s zoned that way, There is
someone who’s going to be willing to take the risk that they’ll work through all the
things I just talked about. Soils might also be an issue.
00:14:48 Speaker 1
Where you know, and that could reduce like if there’s collapsible soils on these two
lots, That’s going to reduce your lot value by about twenty thousand per lot to
remedy that, and maybe more. And so but you’re not you’re not going to have

enough time if they’re going to want a quick closing. Um so that that’s another issue
there. Um anyway. So yeah. So that’s where does the risk does a value decrease if
they require fast closing? Absolutely because they’re pushing risk onto the buyer
that some of these things might not get approved. And then you and so I would
never, just for me because I’ve seen too much. I wouldn’t buy it unless I can get a
fully approved subdivision, Which by the way, would take them at least three
months if it was going through lightning fast. Six months is more likely how long it’s
going to take because you get you, it takes you a while to get your subdivision stuff
put together. Then you take it to the city, then they redline it. You got to take it to
the planning commission for approval. Then, you got to take it to the city council for
approval. And then sometimes you got to go back to the city count planning
commission for approval after that.
00:15:47 Speaker 1
And that just takes months. It just takes months to get all that done. So, I mean, if it
were me, I wouldn’t buy it unless I get all three. And plus, I want to get excavator
bids, so I can know exactly what everything’s going to cost. And you got to check
the depth of the sewer line. Like if it’s not that low, Then you are going to have to
put injector pumps into all the houses to pump the sewer uphill. Like, there is a
whole host of issues you run into which I think they priced it low because they want
a fast closing like. But if it were me, I would have as a seller i would have gone
through and got all the subdivision fully approved. And then sold this office a fully
approved, fully platted subdivision. No risk to the buyers, And you would be you
would have magnified the price value of this by one hundred grand by removing
the risk. Maybe not one hundred, but fifty grand easy easy fifty to seventy five
thousand, just to increase the value. Just like that taking through the through the
approval process. Um now.
00:16:45 Speaker 1
Here is another thing because we did the analysis, assuming we’re just going to
knock that front house down. But, let’s look at it really quickly to where we don’t
knock the front house down. And we keep the front house. You have a, call it, it says
fifteen hundred square feet but I bet that basement is completely unusable. So, but
you know, thirteen, fourteen hundred square foot home that the bones of it
probably are still fine. Roof looks like. It’s maybe okay. Um, the inside just needs a
complete refreshing. And, so you’re going to probably dump how much money into
that to bring it up to speed? Like 100 grand? Yeah, there’s your basement. And yeah,
this needs to be researched. Why, are they holding the I I? I’d just be curious about
how you know, you’d want to have a structural engineer check this one out. To see
what the heck’s going on with this basement down here and make sure it is actually
safe.
00:17:42 Speaker 1
I don’t know. You got to figure that out. I am honestly inclined to just scrape that

house, And they priced it at a level where you can scrape it ;, not a problem. Like
you could just knock it; they priced it that low. I think t here is going to be a bidding
war. I think t here is going to be buyers that are willing to buy this without
subdivision approval all in place, But let’s just assume real quick a remodeled. So
Here is how you are going to do the remodeled house :. So I am going to clear off
the criteria. Um, and I am just going to look at um Springville. I am going to look at
some older homes in Springville, and I mean i’ll do this quickly enough. But I can
come in here, so I am going to just go control F. I am going to type in the word
“total,” brings up square footage. So, I am going to be interested in looking like
maybe nine hundred square feet up to eighteen hundred square feet, something
like that. I don’t really care the style.
00:18:39 Speaker 1
I'm just I’ll take any home. I do can I I’m we’re dealing with old homes, so I don’t
want to deal with anything newer than 1979, and I probably going to scale that
back. And then I’m going to go into the city of Springville. Oh um let’s see here
Springville, and I’ve got 42 sales in the last 12 months. And it’ll be easy because i’m
just going to come in here And I’m going to find what these look like remodeled.
And then we’ll see what makes sense when I go through this. So, I’m just going to
go like this. This is how quick and dirty and easy, and it’s actually decently pretty
darn accurate. Let me just go scan through here. So the highest is a 485, 1700
square feet That’s remodeled really nicely. I mean you can see that.
00:19:38 Speaker 1
They mean they did exterior, interior. I mean, if you want to deck out deck out, then
there’s a comp for you right there under contract forty five. It only took twelve days
to go under contract. It’s actually located in a decently similar nearby area. It’s
actually on a busy road and I am listing by the way that home right there, where the
cursor is right there. I actually have that on the market right away. So this is a busy
road and it’s still selling really fine. And actually, This this comp unnerves me a little
bit because mine is listed at four fifty at that corner. And it’s more square footage.
But anyway, that’s okay. I am glad that one’s under contract ; don’t have to worry
about that competing with my comp. Then you’ve got another one here; this one’s
got a mother in law apartment, um you know, and these are going to be remodeled
so.
00:20:32 Speaker 1
Well, we’re seeing that that’s with the mother in law apartment. Interestingly, that
one’s sold at four seventy nine. We don’t have a chance to put in a mother in law
apartment, and we’re not this high on square footage, so we’re not going to be in
the four eighties. Um, Four seventy This is going to be a remodeled home as well as
you can see, like see how easy it was for me to find these remodeled homes,
unfinished basement But again, A little bit larger than than the subject That’s, four
seventy Here’s one at four, sixty five, with a little bit smaller square footage. And this

probably remodeled, but it’s too small, not selling. And yeah, it’s been updated, but
it’s not to current tastes. Um. There is another one: thirteen thirty nine square feet.
This sort of the square footage range we’re dealing with. Neither of them has sold
seventeen fifty six sold um. This one is not updated so you wonder where someone
paid for this one. This going to be up It’s just.
00:21:31 Speaker 1
This one has, I don’t know, the neighborhood is going to be different. One there’s
going to be an advantage on that in the neighborhood. Um, I want to find and this
hopefully this it right here. This one let’s let’s hope that this one’s remodeled. So
there we go, this one’s remodeled. This the square footage we’re talking about. This
fully remodeled. So even the basement you know, is remodeled and updated. And
um and it is in a superior location than what we. It’s really funny. I told this guy, it’s
like I told this guy to call me back at a certain time, and I said, “This the time you
cannot call me,” and he calls me at the time you can’t call. Anyway, so four forty, and
I am thinking this a superior location, so we’ll reduce ours four twenty. So I am right
now just in the ballpark of four twenty five. Here is another one ;. This a little bit
bigger ;. This probably remodeled as well.
00:22:28 Speaker 1
This nice on the inside. Just scan it through quickly. That was 448. It’s um uh
anyway, there’s the square footage distribution. It’s a little bit larger. Um here’s one
that’s active. Let’s see if that one’s remodeled. So this comp gives you a little pause
'cause this listed at 430, similar square footage, maybe not as nice as you know,
That looks nice so 430, maybe not it, and then you can try to bracket it, real really
fast. And so that one’s not remodeled as nicely, And this one sold for four twenty
five, and it’s fourteen thirty one square feet. Although I’ll be at all in one note, so I
am starting to land in my brain around four twenty five. Four fifty would sort of be
an outside. That one’s on Center Street, so this is a busier road and it has some
updates on the inside. Um, sold for four nineteen. So you can see like four twenty.
00:23:23 Speaker 1
It sounds like we’re pretty good at four twenty. Like this one here, I would assume is
not as updated just based on the square footage. And look, I am not wrong. I just
knew that before I clicked on it because of the square footage and the price. And so,
I now feel like i bracketed. I can see like i am pretty solid that the value of this on a
flip is four, twenty four, fifty max. And i feel really solid about that. So if you were to
buy this property for three hundred grand. And not subdivided, and you dump one
hundred twenty five into it, it’s going to be worth four twenty to four fifty. And you
bought it for three hundred, added one hundred twenty. You are sort of there. Oh
plus here is the nice thing. I was doing that assuming a smaller lot. So it’s a point
nine, whatever acre lot, but I was assuming on the remodel on on that, you are
going to buy it subdivide off some land. So that’s worth without the lot. So this is for
sure, even as is without subdividing.

00:24:22 Speaker 1
This is a screaming deal at three hundred thousand. Is it is a screaming deal? So you
are going to have a multiple, You are going to have a bidding war because I think
the highest and best for this would would be subdivide off two lots. And then you
take the the front home, put one hundred and some odd thousand into it, and end
up selling it. So, you are going to sell it for four thirty, something like that on one
hundred, you know. So let’s call yourself for four thirty. I don’t know what they’ve
The finishing costs, or it’s called one hundred thousand, or you know. And let’s say
you bought the land for let’s say you buy the land, You are going to buy it from
more than three hundred, but three hundred into the land, a hundred into the
costs. So you are into it at four hundred. You sell it for four thirty sales costs
commissions whatever coming out of that. I mean, You are going to break even on
that. And then you are going to have the land. And then you are going to put about
one hundred sixty into the thousand into the land.
00:25:19 Speaker 1
And, then you are going to have two lots worth about two hundred thousand each,
maybe one hundred seventy five thousand. So you picked up in that process, at
least one hundred seventy five one hundred eighty thousand dollars really easily.
That’s just on the side, then you can go vertical, build the homes, earn the profit on
the homes. So anyway, that’s how that would be. Nathan what do you what are your
thoughts or questions on that?
00:25:43 Speaker 2
Yeah, can you explain? Can you just explain one more time, how you wouldum.
Make an offer on this just because there are there are so many different things you
could do with this property and I don’t know I just want to be able to talk to him, like
I know what I’m talking about, but I’ve never made an offer on a deal like this. So
just explain one more time you said around 42 5, you’d be breaking even on the
house, like if you were to to flip it. And then for the lots themselves, it would be like
the value would be 160 for just the lots after you.
00:26:17 Speaker 1
To two hundred, but I, yeah. And the home’s gonna be four twenty five to four fifty.
The lots are gonna be one seventy five to two hundred.
00:26:25 Speaker 2
Okay, gotcha.
00:26:27 Speaker 1
For finished values, um, so is your buyer? Do you have a buyer for this right now?
00:26:35 Speaker 2
Uh yeah I have somebody that’s signed with me to look at this, and we’re looking at
it later today.

00:26:42 Speaker 1
Okayum is the buyer do they want to build? Are they contractor? They want to build
homes. You know,
00:26:49 Speaker 2
I just met him yesterday, and we like texted a little bit back and forth. Um, I’ll have
to pull up his text again. He’s told me that he’s done some projects before. I don’t
know what that means though. Um, I don’t know if that means like he’s developed
land, or if that just means that he’s flipped a home. Um, I’m, assuming he’s done
something with land because it was the land that was appealing to him, not the
house.
00:27:10 Speaker 1
Okay, perfect okay so, Yeah, a few questions when you when you talk to them
tomorrow. How are they going to finance this this now? This home because this
home’s not financeable. There’s not a lender out there that’s going to finance this
through conventional lending. You have to get hard money. So, This is probably
going. We’re going to sell it with a cash buyer. And uh, yeah, You’re gonna probably
sell it with a cash buyer who um so so I’d also call the listing agent, see what offers
are on the table already um and see.
00:27:42 Speaker 1
You know, I ask if they’re cash. See if your buyer has cash. Your buyer does not have
cash, you are going to have to go with hard money. And hard money lenders are
going to be a little hesitant on this because of the entitlement risk. Entitlement is
the process of taking the lot through the subdivision process and getting it
approved. That’s when when a property is entitled, that means it’s all approved. The
entitlement process is going through the approval process. And so, Hard money
lenders probably aren’t going to be excited to lend on something that has to go
through an entitlement process. They’ll want a certain amount of money down.
That’s some question. So, Here is where I would offer to be sort of aggressive if the
buyer is savvy and feels comfortable going through the entitlement process. I
would do a probably a two week due diligence period and a thirty day close.
00:28:36 Speaker 1
And the buyer paying cash, and I would go in with an escalation clause and say,
“You know, You’ll beat the next highest offer by five thousand dollars up to a max
purchase price of whatever number. The buyer feels comfortable with.” Yeah. And.
But this is where if the buyer purchases without, i would I would supply them with
that document that was on the MLS that we pulled up. and The risk, the buyer is
going to take on is there are a few risks like that’s not going to give you enough
time to get bids from excavators. Excavators are who would give you the
improvement costs to put in the road, to put in utilities, curb gutter sidewalk on lot
number one. You’re not going to have enough time to get the excavator bids. You’re

not going to have enough time to test soils, which a lot of buyers don’t anyway, but
you won’t have time to test the soil. Your.
00:29:32 Speaker 1
You’re not going to have time to get a subdivision approved at the city, But you will,
at least have enough time to go talk to them and and try to measure some of the
risks there. Um, But really an engineer would need to dive into this and see what’s
the sewer depth, where are the water You again you’ll need to talk to the city
engineer. Where are the utilities located? How much will it cost? And the excavator
can help. And, this engineer can help you figure out how to get all the utilities there.
Are you going to run into any issues with any of that? You’re going need get an
alpha survey. And that’s going to take that takes two to four weeks to get that back,
anyway. As well, like you are not going to get that back during due diligence. Alpha
survey not only gives you the boundary lines, It shows you a lot of other things like
um the location of utilities and other things on the lot and stuff like easements and
encroachments. Like the alpha survey is going to show you everything. Um, that’s
like the full data of you can get on on the property itself.
00:30:24 Speaker 1
And, so you’re going to be buying it without having all those tests done to know
what these costs are, what you could run into. And. So that’s where the buyer has to
know their level of risk. And and really a really solid conversation with the city will
be helpful. I would check the zoning map. So, um, I won’t pull up now, but you can
go pull up the zoning map, see what it’s zoned for. And and then you’ll know what
the minimum lot size is going to be in that um for that zoning. And if you’re going to
get three lots, you’re going to need at least A lot size zoning. I mean, that’s going to
determine honestly what the subdivision is going to look like. The fire chief will
want to comment as well, because the fire chief can turn down anything. And my
guess is this will be fine. The fire chief will be fine because it looks like there’s room
for fire trucks to maneuver around in here. So that’s probably going to be okay.
Anyway.
00:31:23 Speaker 1
Yeah, you have what’s called a DRC meeting, and it’s a development review
committee meeting DRC. And the chief decision makers in the city come, staff
members to try to analyze this like the engineer, fire guys, planner. Like, they come
in and see they try to poke holes to see if it’s doable that meets code. City council
members sometimes show up, sometimes don’t they’re the ultimate deciding body
on a subdivision. But if it meets all the codes, You are going to get the subdivision
approved. Like, the city council can’t stop you if it meets all the codes for it to get
subdivided. You are going to get it done, um, if the underlying zone is already in
place. If it’s not zoned that way, the city council could shut you down all day long.
There is no requirement for them to agree to a rezone. Um, anyway, So you are
going want, check the zone on that too Nathan. And just say, okay, what is the

zoning on this? And it’s going to say something like R one something. And the next
number is going to tell you the minimum lot size. So if it’s like R one.
00:32:20 Speaker 1
Like it says, if it says R one twenty two, You are going to be hosed because that
means twenty two thousand square foot lots, which is about half acre. R one fifteen
meaning means fifteen thousand square foot lots. You probably can pull that off.
Um you know something like that so. Um anyway so you want to check on that. Um,
but yeah, so it depends on how aggressive the buyer wants to be. And if the buyer
doesn’t want to be aggressive, then you are going to want to be like, well, we’re
going to offer. But we need we need three months. Six months due diligence to give
you enough time to go through and get subdivision approved. And I think the seller
is going to take. I It’s probably going to happen because t here is probably enough
people that will be willing to take the risk.
00:33:02 Speaker 2
Okay, cool, thanks for going over that.
00:33:05 Speaker 1
Okay, any other questions on that one?
00:33:09 Speaker 2
I don’t think so. No,
00:33:11 Speaker 1
Okay. Once you go see it like review the zone go see show it, Sort of get the feel for
the buyer on their keep like their appetite for risk, you know, taking a little, you
know, Just and then if you need follow up, have have follow up questions, just call
me. You know or send me Marco Polo or text me or whatever. Just contact me and
I’m happy to help. Okay now um we’re going to review another flip opportunity. And
uh, and this is one this one’s in Murray.
00:33:44 Speaker 1
And so you’re going to see some similar philosophy. Like, you’d see how quickly I
was able to dial in the value on that without doing a traditional CMA, by just saying,
well, I’m just going to pull up which properties are remodeled and in in that area.
Boom boom. That’s the value. And, it was easy to pinpoint that down to down to
within, like a three to five percent margin of error. Like we’ve got that one dialed in.
So we’re going to do a similar philosophy here on this one in Murray. Um, where it is
on Dunrobin. So I’m just going to come Dun Robin. And I’m sure okay, and we’re
looking at 111199. Not sure why that didn’t show up on my Okay, random.
00:34:34 Speaker 3
So when I did a search for it, Dunrobin was coming up as two words.

00:34:40 Speaker 1
Okay. Oops, done. There we go. Brad Marion and um Leslie Hart. So not ever been
on the MLS, it’s a townhome. Okay, That’s gonna that’s interesting. So it’s a
townhome and uh, built in the year 2000. And apparently it’s not in good shape.
Let’s go take a look here. So I’m going to drop this into a map again because we
don’t have any pictures of it. And this is the location near I-15. Okay, that’s also, well,
that’s interesting. Okay, so it’s really close to the Murray Taylorsville border.
00:35:39 Speaker 1
Well, it’s obviously in Murray, but it’s um this this a nice area back down in here. Uh I
lived nearby this for quite quite a few years of my life. That’s a nice little
neighborhood. Um and maybe I’m not familiar with these townhomes specifically.
It’s probably a private road. Oh okay, But we’ve got a little map guy, we can take.
Oh, okay, yep um Okay. So that’s what we’re looking at. I yeah, and I can’t speak
specifically to the quality of this specific townhome development. Um, but let’s let’s
now take a look at that. So. So you’re saying that this one Asha is not in good shape
on the inside.
00:36:24 Speaker 3
Yeah, it’s a divorce situation and they just want to sell it. It is currently vacant. They
just want to sell it cash for cash and as is, Um, I’m gonna do a walkthrough with her.
Um, like the carpet is terrible. Um, yeah, It has not been updated, and there is like a
little, not a deck, but there are stairs that come off the back of the unit that she said
are in such disrepair. She put hazard tape on it. But with.
00:37:05 Speaker 3
With it being a townhome, I am just not sure how to like because if it were a single
family, then I think your investor pool would be different.
00:37:20 Speaker 1
Yeah, I’ve sold a flip once to a townhome. I did a condo actually. A condo was more
like a townhome flip. So well let’s let’s see it all It’s all product with price they want.
Versus what the value could could be. So let’s come in and let’s see what that
townhome community has been selling for. So I’m going to, let’s do this, clear the
criteria. I’ll take take a look at these statuses here and then I’m going to view the
map. And then we could we’ll just uh pop in 119 9 West Dun Robin. And that let’s
see if that picks it up. Okay.
00:38:04 Speaker 1
And let’s let’s take a look at these townhomes right in here. Now, This is picking up
some on the edges here. It’s picking up some detached single family. But these, we
have plenty of comps in here, so we can dial in a value, and we won’t even have to
venture outside this because you can see how tight the range is already. Like this is
really, really tight ranges. I don’t know if there’s a benefit with whatever that pond
is. Um, So it does look like there’s a nice little pond there that I have not ever

actually spent time, never really spent any time. I’ve driven down through this
neighborhood. I probably showed a home in this neighborhood before, but. Okay,
00:38:50 Speaker 3
So what. I did a drive by. It’s really close to where I live, so yeah. So I did do a drive
by. It mean it is kind of a pretty part of Murray. I mean it’s it’s one of the older
pockets, But I feel like the townhomes in there, you know, are very reasonably
priced. So and it’s close to the parkway.
00:39:11 Speaker 1
Yeah. Okay, So let’s take a let’s take a look at these then and hold these up. And
these are, you know all these are going to be excellent comps It’s February of this
year December April April of this year. September last year, in March of this year.
These are all acceptable timeframes, and so we’re just going to drop these in. Uh,
now we don’t have an ability. Look, you you can and let’s just maybe for fun I’ll show
you this. You could take the tax ID and and you can drop it in here, but I have had
so many problems with this. So okay picks up the address.
00:39:55 Speaker 1
It’s picking up three bed, one bath. I doubt that number is correct. In fact, Let’s
come over here, and you can see it’s one full bath and one three-quarter bath and a
half bath. So this utility didn’t see that. So we can immediately come in there’s a full
this and this okay? And it didn’t put where the square footage should accurately go.
So that was that’s why I just don’t do it that way. It just fails too too often. So here
we can easily plug in. Uh so five forty eight, then five sixty, uh, five forty eight, Five
sixty and then basement, uh five sixty, and it finished at four four fifty. So um I, you
can easily just come in here, and you just pull up the calculator.
00:40:50 Speaker 1
This is all that’s very defensible. I just like to provide defensible information. This
says it’s eighty percent complete in the basement, and you may go down there and
find it’s more finished than that, but this doesn’t move the needle very much. Like if
you look at this, okay, like why is this coming up six million? Well, we’ll diagnose.
There is an error in here somewhere; we’re going to diagnose real fast. But you go
okay, we got our square footages; we got the year built. Was that even accurate?
Um, would we say year built? Yeah, two thousand. That is accurate. Uh, seventy
acres. And so that’s why I don’t do that. This that’s where our error is. Um, And I
think it was point. Oh, you just click acre total acreage point. Oh, seven. So that’s it
missed on that. So now, but let me just show you like whether it’s eighty or ninety
this three, seventy five figure down here goes to three seventy seven. It’s it’s
nominal. It’s like it’s really immaterial honestly. So.
00:41:49 Speaker 1
Um, Because we’re dealing with very little square footage down there, five sixty. And
it’s just very, very case. So now we’ve got it all plugged in three seventy five is where

we’re coming in sold, three seventy five, actually all six of these are sold. So we’re
not even dealing with any now acreage for some reason. This has a little bit larger
lot. Some of them had a point, oh, seven. But again, that’s just going to be a minor
difference. Uh, oh, we missed garage. So this is two car carport. All of them. This
one’s not showing any carport. These are all showing two. My guess is that this one
is uh inaccurately listed. In fact, I’ll pull this up real quick. Um, well I actually don’t
see a carport, but that doesn’t mean one’s not there. Um, yeah, yep, there’s your
carport, and there’s your listing agent who missed on that. So you can come in and
edit comp mode. I’m going to put in a two-car carport there.
00:42:45 Speaker 1
I am going to put in a two car carport here. It’s irrelevant, and the reason why well
this one was relevant changing this comp. The rest of these are irrelevant because
every single one of them has the feature. So if I come in and say that this is worth a
gazillion thousand dollars, It doesn’t change this down here because every single
one of them had that feature, so it just cancels out. Anyway, so okay, so we’re at
three eight. So now we can go look at These and and there’s a range between three
seventy upwards. Actually, there’s a three sixty upwards of three ninety. Why is
there a spread that far? I don’t know. We’re going to find out real fast by looking at
these photos. Um, Let’s like square footage differences I think are very minute as
well, because you are seventeen hundred here, Seventeen right around seventeen
right around seventeen, they’re all pretty much identical. Um and this says twenty
twelve makes me wonder.
00:43:42 Speaker 1
That’s not, I know exactly what’s going on. This is again another agent that messed
up on their showing on this data. This is not a 2012 year built. We know for certain.
I’ll show you where he’s messing up. Year built, 2000.
00:43:56 Speaker 3
He put theum. The uh effective year date, yeah?
00:44:01 Speaker 1
Yep. And again, you’re not allowed to do that. Year built is your built. Andum so now
we got to go back into edit comp mode. 'Cause this agent screwed up on this. And
that’s going to affect our bottom line on that number. Now we’re like, why was that
360? Well, 'cause we found an error. Um, and it sold for 380 and they gave up 10K in
closing costs. Um, which some of these, we’ve got the closing cost down in here.
Okay, so now let’s take a look at these. Um I’m I’m going to start with, let’s start with
the right side, 'cause I want to see what these higher end ones were.
00:44:38 Speaker 1
These four like three ninety three eighty three, three ninety, three ninety. And then
you have these two that are lower. So these four are going to look better for some
reason. And it could be this is a mid unit so that that wasn’t the reason. Um so this

has an updated kitchen, nice flooring, Nice appliances paint color is is odd, but it
looks fine. And so it that looks good I, you know. Um, noticeable issues, no deck.
Um, but noticeable issues with with that property. Okay, so that’s what a 390 looks
like. Next, so this this literally sold for 390 and had no concessions. And I say it
occurred two months ago. So, let’s take a look at this one’s an end unit. So so that
might give a little bit of a bump take a look at these.
00:45:35 Speaker 1
Good flooring. It’s actually a little bit older kitchen, But I think it’s the and this is
actually not as updated as the first one, But I think the reason why this one
succeeded is because it was an end unit and it’s fenced. The other one was not
fenced. And. So here is some things you could do to start make just dialing in the
value on this. A little bit. I would say, you know that this one, I am going to assume,
for instance, for a moment that the subject property is sort of just average. I am
going to assume that for a second. This one is probably, you know, at least fifteen
thousand but let’s call it twenty thousand above average. And, then this just
because of its night, and you know, some things were nice about it. This one here
was an end unit, which I am going to give that ten thousand bucks just for being an
end unit and I am going to give it another ten thousand dollars for the fence. The
fact it was fenced. And.
00:46:29 Speaker 1
That that’s just a very usable feature, so I might give this one twenty thousand as
well. Um and again, your numbers might be a little different than that. That’s fine.
We’re ballparking. We’re going to be within a pretty similar enough range. So now
let’s take a look at this one. It’s it’s a uh uh that looks like an end unit. It’s not
mentioned here, but it’s probably an end unit, and we’re going to take a look at. You
know, it’s it’s nice on the inside um updated kitchen. Um. And I assume it’s fenced. It
looks like it’s fenced, so um, you know, do you give it ten thousand for the kitchen
and like the upgrades? Maybe ten thousand for the end unit, ten thousand for the
fencing. I am giving too much for the fencing probably. I am probably hitting this
up too hard at thirty thousand. But um but we’re we’re getting we’re telling a story
here. Let’s look at this one that’s three ninety.
00:47:27 Speaker 1
This one is aum a mid unit. So we’re not going to give it an adjustment for being an
end unit interior looks okay I’m assuming, there’s going to be a backyard fence.
There’s a nice backyard fenced area. Does this? Do you know if the subject property,
you probably don’t know if it has a backyard fence or not?
00:47:48 Speaker 3
You know the one on that I when I drove by I think the back is fenced, but there is
like HOA access on the side.

00:47:58 Speaker 1
Yeah, and it looks like so it is partially fenced. It’s missing some of the fencing here.
Yeah, a couple thousand dollars or something. I don’t know. I mean, uh, But it is an
end unit that’s going to help us in our analysis here. Uh okay where was I? Right
there um So. So maybe you know that one is a mid unit It was in okay condition. Um
and there was fully fenced. I might only give a half. You know, maybe a $5,000 for
the fence situation. That’s all taken care of. This one, this guy got a great deal. This
one’s this guy scored. He did really well. Um, now this one here, let’s take a look at
this. So this is um mid unit and actually I I need to back up because if the subject
property is an end unit, we don’t want to give end unit benefits to these others. So
let me um sorry, let me let’s back up into this. That was a mid these two are end
units.
00:48:56 Speaker 1
I'm going to back off 10, 000 on each of those because the subject property, and
then this one was not an end unit. So this one it’s lacking the end unit status. So we
could take that down from a two to a one. And then this one, Was a mid-unit, so we
can go actually negative half on this. Um, to accommodate for the end unit
situation. Um, and that was just pretty average on the inside. Okay, let’s go to this
one here. This one is a mid-unit so we’re going to do a negative 10,000 on that as
well. The interior is sort of what I would say average condition. It’s fenced so I might
do a negative 0.5.
00:49:53 Speaker 1
On that. 0.5, 0.5. Want that to be a negative. Let’s try this again, negative 0.5 Okay,
one more mid unit So we’ll go negative 10,000 The inside is normal The backyard is
looks like it’s.
00:50:22 Speaker 1
Partial, it looks like it’s yeah. I am not going to give any, so I am just going to say
negative negative ten thousand. So it looks to me, you know, three eighty. You are
sort of three seventy to three eighty right in that range. This is an anomaly. This guy
just had a good sale right in here, so three seventy to three eighty and that
assumes normal condition that it’s, You know, partially fenced. It’s an end unit. It’s in
average condition, not hammered. So knowing knowing that info, I guess, you’re
going to need I guess, when you walk through it and you don’t know what they
want to take for it, right?
00:51:10 Speaker 3
Yeah, But I, my sense from talking to the wife is they uh want to get rid of it as
quickly as they can. You know, like how aggressive she wants to be on the price, I’ll
have to hone in with her, but she’s firm on cash as is.
00:51:29 Speaker 1
Okay. Okay. Um okay. So I am going to talk through two different strategies and I

am going to talk through them out loud because they haven’t formulated in my
brain. So it’s going to formulate as I am talking. Let’s assume for a moment it’s an
investor. So an investor that’s going to come in pay cash and flip it, So so okay, you
have now as I am talking through this, we got two different things. You are going to
have two types of investors that come in on this. Um investor one and investor two,
and then you have primary occupant. So, one thing you are going to want to check
with are investors allowed in the community? Um to see if there is any restrictions
on that and something I am going to pull up again. This where you get high level.
Okay, this great.
00:52:18 Speaker 1
And you’re like, why? You highlighted the letters P U D Y. I said, great. Typically in a
PUD, planned unit development, there are usually no rental restrictions or very or
few. When you get to condos. It’s very different because FHA has strict guidelines
regarding how many occupants versus how many investors and if that condo
community wants FHA approval, they have to follow those guidelines, and they will
typically have rental restrictions.
00:52:48 Speaker 1
Whereas with the PUD, You have a more of a chance that the HOA has not adopted
any rental rules. That’s why I’m thinking you’re going to be okay on this, but you still
need to check CC and Rs. And and and you can check with the property
management company, whatever. Check the CC and Rs. Are there rental
restrictions? If so, is it can investors come in? Because this going to influence how
this about to roll. Assuming investors are okay, you’re going to have one of two
types that will come in. Type number one is the one that wants to buy it, remodel it,
flip it.
00:53:18 Speaker 1
That’s going to be the buyer that gives you the least amount of money. However,
they’ll still you know, you’ll be able to sell it. So, You’re going to have to assess when
you go in there. Okay, how much is it going to cost to if it’s like really in bad shape,
carpet flooring, uh, bathrooms, kitchen, like how much of this you’re going to
actually have to get up speed? And so are you going to be spending thirty thousand
fifty sixty thousand? Let’s assume right now. You’re just gonna do fifty. And the
investor’s going to want a profit. They’re not going to buy it for three hundred
because if they buy it for three hundred, put in fifty, put it on the market, And then
they’re going to experience say eight percent sales costs between commissions and
title and whatever concessions. There is just no money by selling it at three eighty.
Oh no, we were assuming average right? We were assuming average conditions. So
if you are going to remodel it, You are going to bump that up suddenly into the
three ninety range on a remodel.
00:54:14 Speaker 1
Um, you are going to be right around three hundred and ninety on a remodel. Um,

and so if you buy it at three hundred, Can you put in fifty and sell it at three
hundred and ninety and pocket a little bit of money? That might be possible. Yes, so
but that’s that’s sort of buyer number one. Uh, that’s going to come in and do that.
Um, But but that would have to be a pretty clean remodel where they’re going to
come in because fifty thousand doesn’t give you very much money to to update
kitchen and bathrooms and flooring carpet like you are going to be tight on your
budget.
00:54:44 Speaker 1
But anyway, that’s buyer number one. Buyer number two is an investor, someone
who’s going to come in and rent it out. So they don’t need to worry about the sales
costs. That person will still come in, buy it, update it and put a renter in. But, they
don’t need to worry about the margin on they lose on the sales costs. So, these
guys can probably improve the offer by twenty thousand or more twenty to thirty
thousand. They can give you a better offer That’s, so A buyer or investor that’s
going to rent it out is the next best target? And so, you are going to probably get
three twenty. I am just doing rough numbers: three twenty to three thirty out of it.
Again, I am assuming about a fifty thousand remodel budget. It’s coming up with
these numbers. And then the next and you might be able to get a investor that we
could do better than that because they’re like, " I am just going to put in carpet and
I am just going to put in paint. I am not going to change the bathroom and
kitchen." And maybe they’re going to come in and you can say, “Hey look guys
things have been selling in this community legitimately at the three.” You know if
you look up here.
00:55:42 Speaker 1
Three eighty five, three eighty, three ninety five, three ninety. Like we’ve been
selling three ninety to four hundred. You know that’s what these have been selling
for. Um and so um anyway, uh yeah I just got a call, but listen. Okay, sounds good
flipper will be at seventy to seventy five percent ARV minus rehab costs, right? So so
a flipper is going to be really low is is what um yeah, it’s going to be really low. So
um that’s where they’re going to come in in low volume. Um okay So, the next best
buyer, and honestly, this is the best buyer if you’ve got a little bit of time. And that’s
going to be a primary resident who’s going to come in and say, “Look, it’s
occupiable. Carpet might be old. The kitchen might be old. The bathrooms might be
old.” But can you live in it? That’s and because you could say, “Look, I am going to
go put this on the market, and I am going to get a fast offer.” These have all been
listed up at the three um. And maybe I was a bit harsh on this.
00:56:40 Speaker 1
You know, I was sort of assuming average condition, but um, you know, if you put it
on the market at three fifty, You should get a whole bunch of our primary resident
buyers that are going to be knocking on the door wanting that property. Like a
bunch of them. Um. You like three forty nine nine hundred? You, should you should

get primary like a bunch of people through the open house. A bunch of people are
like, yeah you’ve listed this thirty to forty thousand dollars fixer. Forty to fifty
thousand dollars below what everything else has been selling for, You are going to
get a primary resident come in there and put in an offer and be willing to deal with
the property condition. And then you’ve sold it for three hundred fifty, instead of
three hundred or three hundred twenty. And so that’s where I know they mentioned
they want cash, but it sounds to me why, you know, And these are some questions. I
would talk through the seller with : is the reason why you want cash is you just don’t
want to deal with updating it? That’s probably the reason why they want cash.
00:57:35 Speaker 1
Great, so if I can find a buyer that’s not cash, But they’re not going to come back to
you saying repair this out and the other, are you okay with a finance buyer?
Probably going to say yes. And we’d say when you want a quick sale, Are you talking
about like you need this gone in two weeks? Or can you wait five? Because if you
can wait the additional three weeks, here is what that looks like. If you want it gone
in two weeks, right? Finance buyers probably going to be out of it. Um and and then
and then they’re You are going to be You’re going to drop. I mean, you’re going to
list it at three hundred and just say, you know, You are going to have a bidding war
and see what buyers are going to come in and just kind of have a bidding war
among cash buyers and find, which which cash buyer is willing to push you up uh to
some number. Um, you know, and and honestly would list it probably down in that
range. And you’re like, I need to get it gone in two weeks. Great. Let’s put it at three
hundred thousand and let’s see what happens. Um, but if they’re saying, yeah, five
weeks is fine. You’d say great, give me an opportunity. Let’s let’s put it at three forty
nine nine hundred And. Let’s go find a finance buyer.
00:58:33 Speaker 1
Or maybe a cash investor will come in and do it, but maybe not. But that you know,
You get a finance buyer who at that point can go in there, and you can still get a
loan. Don’t do FHA, but I would roll with the conventional buyer. And, you say we
don’t want any property repair requests, and we want a closing as fast as you
reasonably can. And you do one week to get offers, evaluate offers, choose an offer
four weeks to close. And then, so those are some questions I would ask the person:
whether they’re like, "Do you need to sell in two weeks or can you go with five? "
And here is the reason why : is I can get you some more money on five versus two.
Anyway, so there is some questions Keaton asked this question with seller finance
flip. It’s a divorce situation, So I highly doubt that’s going to work because they’re
going to need to divide equity. But I mean Asha could run that by them as well,
because if you can seller finance. Well, I guess what you are saying Keaton is.
00:59:30 Speaker 1
Short, really short term seller finance the flip. Yeah, yeah, just a flip term. Um, so
yeah. Uh. Yeah, so I see what Keaton and what you are saying there. Um you, you

basically, yeah, you do a six month balloon or something, and and then some buyer
can come in and just use their funds to, You know update property and then sell it
yada yada. Yeah saves and it saves money on the holding costs fine yeah exactly, So
anyway, so those are some of the questions I would probably identify. Oh, a
timeline you want to get it sold in, and they’re comfortable five to six weeks. That’s
going to change your pricing strategy versus if they want it gone in two weeks, ;
totally changes the pricing strategy and changes your target. And you might walk
through it. ; might be so hammered that a primary occupant might not be able to
get financing, but I doubt that’s the case. Anyway, I doubt it. So you may just walk
through it, see what you got and and then you can make a determination like okay,
it’s sort of grungy.
01:00:28 Speaker 1
But someone can move in, and a conventional loan should have no problem getting
approved. Looks like Keaton may have someone that’s hot on the trail for this
property. So, anyway, that’s the analysis that I am running through on this any Any
questions? I know you are on a call, but um Yep, I’ll email the CMA. Um and i i am, i
this will cma. I am I can’t say I am like super proud of or not proud of. It’s. It’s I didn’t
I did this assuming average condition, But not remodeled, and and I know a lot of
these were selling up in a certain level, But if it was sort of average average ish, you
know, three eighty, maybe three, ninety, you know, three seventy to three eighty,
three, seven, thirty five, three eighty five I mean, it’s sort of in that range. Updated
in really good condition, though this would have been up like where these other
guys are right close to four hundred. You know three ninety to four hundred.
01:01:28 Speaker 1
So anyway, okay. I will send a CMA and we’ll go from there. Thanks everybody. Have
an awesome day.

