2026 Jul 6 Planned Decision Making
2026-08-11 14:32:51

00:00:06 Speaker 1
All right, we’ll get this thing going. We got the recording started again. I am going
to make one quick tech change here and put this up. Do not disturb. All right.
00:00:38 Speaker 1
Now, as we go through this, i you have questions, eel ree to to uh just cut me o.
It’s, it gets a little weird when we’re doing the training this way, because um like I
said, the the Zoom link is one login. And what I’m going to show you is on a
dierent login. So I kind o have to bounce back and orth to see what’s going on
Zoom. So um right now, do you see a screen that says, Plan To Decision Making?
Yep Okay, So, A lot o what we’re going to go through today is rom the book " T. He
Art o Clear T hin king " by John Hazard Lee. Hazard is his light nickname. He was
an F sixteen pilot who then switched ; was one o the irst pilots to change to the F
thirty ive while it was in experimental stage, and then his experience led to him
being.
00:01:34 Speaker 1
Assigned to design the light instruction process or the incoming F thirty ive pilots,
And one o the irst things he realized was that the F sixteen, while it was pretty
complex, Was still being. He was trained on it the same way that we were training
pilots clear back in World War Two, where you just knew everything about the
plane. And i you got in a sticky situation, You just knew what the plane could do
and just did what you were told to do next. They weren’t really taught how to think
through the process o what makes the most sense or my next action. You just
knew what the plane could do and you just did it. Well, The problem with the F thirty
ive is that the F thirty ive is extremely computer dependent. Like, The F sixteen
computer has about as much memory in it as your cell phone.
00:02:34 Speaker 1
Where, an F thirty ive has over a billion lines o code that keeps the plane in the air,
You couldn’t know everything there is to know about the airplane because t here is
too much to know. And it updates too quickly. And so he said, Well, look what we
need to do is teach pilots how to think. What makes the most sense to do here and
make that decision? But they’ve got to be able to do it under stress. And he
recounts in this book, how he’s trying to explain to the Air Force up. Upper brass,
that beore they teach them how to ly the plane, They’ve got to teach them how to
think and handle stress and decision making in stress. And the air orce, o course

being the air orce said well prove it. Prove, we need to make. We need to change
what we’ve been doing or ity years. So, they set up a double blind with a bunch o
cadet with a bunch o trainees one group. They trained the traditional way.
00:03:31 Speaker 1
His group, they trained beore they ever even trained him anything about the
airplane. They trained him on decision making and then trained him on the aircrat.
Well, It should come as no surprise that those that were trained to think and igure
out how to make decisions in stressul situations outscored those that were just
trained how to mechanically, operate the plane. So, the air orce decided, yeah, this
makes sense. We should do this with all the pilots. So they rewrote the entire
instructional process or training, um, the pilots or the F thirty ive initially. That,
they’re a whole signiicant portion o the irst part o their training is decision
making. And, then they realized it works so well that they should be training all o
their pilots on how to make decisions in stressul situations because they had kids
that were scoring really, really well on the written test who would wash out and
couldn’t igure out how to ly the plane, because in a stressul situation, they’d make
mistakes.
00:04:28 Speaker 1
I am not going to recount all o his experiences he tells through the book, but he
makes it very. I you ever want to read it as a quick read, took me about a day and a
hal. The Art o Clear Thinking by Hazard Lee. He uses actual experiences as a pilot
in very high stress combat situations to illustrate how we use these skills and some
o the skills he was trained on, some o them he had to come up with his own. Some
have been around or a while, but had never really been integrated. So, we’re going
to look at two o the dierent decision - making processes that he now that we now
trains other ighter pilots on. He’s now retired rom the Air Force, and he now goes
around the world, training corporations and people and business people, how to
make an intelligent decision. Now as we get into this.
00:05:23 Speaker 1
You are going to see me use a quote that he uses multiple times, and it pops up in
there at least once. One o the irst things they teach the pilots in making decisions
is, “There is no situation so bad you can’t make it worse.” He said, “I know that
sounds negative, But there is no situation so bad that i you make a rushed or poor
decision, you can’t make it worse.”
00:05:52 Speaker 1
And once the pilots understand that, that they can take a bad situation and make it
worse, or they can take a bad situation and make it better. What, we’re emphasizing
is you’re going to look at what decisions could make it worse and what could make
it better, and which make the most sense to implement. Our goal here is not to
make it worse but to make it better. Now, we’ve all been in situations where we’ve
done what seemed like made the most sense. And, then the next step happens and

it didn’t go the way we thought it would. And yeah, we may have made it worse.
Well, that’s part o the decision-making process is how to take that eedback. So, the
irst loop we’re going to look at is called the OODA loop. This was originally
developed by Colonel Boyd, John Boyd in the US Air Force in the nineteen seventies
to train very early jet ighter pilots, Very early like irst or second generation F
sixteen pilots on ways to make decisions.
00:06:49 Speaker 1
And ways to make decisions that either keep you out o trouble or take a situation
that is rapidly changing and make it better. And you’ll notice that throughout this
process, it is a loop. Once you make it, you don’t just stop. You don’t make one
decision. Lie is ull o continually making decisions based on what happened rom
our prior decisions.
00:07:17 Speaker 1
So, the irst thing we do when we go into a situation is we need to observe what’s
actually what’s going on. This tends to be a relaxed state o readiness. This is when
otentimes, well, or another you know working with another light analogy, we’re
on autopilot. All modern aircrat are designed that with an autopilot engaged, the
plane can ly itsel. It can keep itsel in the air. Otentimes when we’re working with
people and working with situations, we’re kind o in that autopilot mentality. Oh,
I’ve done this enough times. I just know what to expect. I’m not going to, I’m just
kind o going through the motions, and we’re not paying ull attention to what’s
going on. And. Consequently, we’re in a low state o readiness, and we’re not really
paying attention to what’s actually occurring around us.
00:08:15 Speaker 1
Until something happens, And then we have to move ourselves quickly into rom
relaxed readiness, but up to a more alert readiness status. So we observe what’s
going on around us. We then have to orient ourselves to the current reality, what’s
actually reality, not what we think is reality. Once, we understand what’s going on
around us and have oriented ourselves to the current reality. Now we’re in a high
state o alert. Now we have to decide what to do. And otentimes we’re deciding
between decisions that are, sometimes we have a good, better, best situation.
Sometimes we have a bad, worse and absolutely worse situation. And, we’re trying
to orient ourselves to get out o that bad situation into good situation.
00:09:08 Speaker 1
We have to make a decision, become engaged with it, and do what we decided to
do. Go through the actions and then observe what the results are. Now I know that
sounds airly basic, but in a high stress situation we can orget where we’re at. In
the OODA loop as John Boyd described it: observing. We’re just gathering raw data.
And real-time inormation rom your environment. Well, when we’re working with
clients and people, What’s the most common way that we observe and see what’s
going on with them? Ooh, you gonna make me answer that one? Asha, when you’re

working with clients, How oten what’s the most common way o getting
inormation rom them to observe what’s really going on?
00:10:11 Speaker 2
Asking open- ended questions, listening than talking.
00:10:19 Speaker 1
Okay. What is your most common orm o communication with your clients?
00:10:25 Speaker 2
Uh, or me.
00:10:31 Speaker 1
Oh, now I know why she’s not answering. She’s breaking up on us.
00:10:35 Speaker 2
Oh shoot, sorry. Um it’s usually verbal. I preer verbal over. Message and email
whenever possible.
00:10:43 Speaker 1
Okay, so having a conversation with them, advantage to a verbal phone call
conversation immediate eedback. Disadvantage we otentimes misremember what
the conversation was right? Well I think I said or I think that’s what we talked about.
Advantage to an email or a text. We have a written conversation. We’ve got proo o
what was said disadvantage. Time lag. But we’ve now got in writing what was what
was intended. We need to observe and get as much inormation as possible. Now,
sometimes we have time to do that, sometimes we don’t, you know? How oten do
things seem to come up at three o’clock on the aternoon o a deadline in the
contract, and we got to have sorted out by ive o’clock?
00:11:39 Speaker 1
Or i we’re planning ahead and we’ve got a couple, you what all the time more than
like.
00:11:47 Speaker 2
Yeah, even though we’re paying attention to those deadlines, we’re keeping track o
them. We’re doing everything we can. Things happen once we observe. We have to
orient ourselves to what isum the gathered inormation to build an accurate mental
picture o reality, what really is happening.
00:12:08 Speaker 1
Again, going back to the statement, there’s no situation so bad you can’t make it
worse. Most o the time we make a situation worse is because we’re making
assumptions about what’s happening. And so our decisions are based on
assumptions or incomplete or inaccurate data. And then once we make a decision

based on incomplete or inaccurate data, we’re oriented to a reality that doesn’t exist
or we’re not completely properly oriented.
00:12:39 Speaker 1
Now, in his book, Hazard Lee describes an experience. He had his irst time out,
lying an F thirty ive ollowing. And as a trainee. And his trainer made a particular
move with the aircrat that you have to be within very, very speciic parameters to
work in terms o your airspeed, the actual physical position o the aircrat. Even the
position o the pilot inside the aircrat, because the amount o orce that’s going to
occur against your body. His trainer made that particular very sudden move. He
knew his situation was about ninety ive percent o what he needed to be in in order
to pull o the maneuver, igured that was close enough and tried the same move.
00:13:33 Speaker 1
And stalled the aircrat at ive miles in the air. At such a high rate o speed, he
temporarily lost consciousness. And when he regained consciousness, it was with
his aircrat pointed nose down, hurtling at ull speed toward the ground. And he
suddenly had a very dynamic, Situation that he needed to observe and orient
himsel to. And, the irst thing he did was igure out where the eject was he in a
situation he could eject i he had to. And then realized he had time once you to
igure out what was happening, Reoriented himsel to the reality o the situation
and was able to recover the aircrat.
00:14:30 Speaker 1
Now, when he landed, which he did successully, ater he got chewed out pretty
hard or making such an obvious mistake. And they went through the iterative
process o tell me what happened. Tell me what decisions you made. Restate what
the results were and realizing 95 % o reality wasn’t good enough in that situation.
He needed to know 100% o what was going on. And i he was outside o that area
o operation, he shouldn’t have made the decision he did. The learning experience
came rom living through the experience, But then having someone aterwards sit
down with him and go through the process o, let’s go back through your loop.
What did you observe? How did you orient yoursel? What did you decide to do?
What was your action? What was the result?
00:15:28 Speaker 1
That now puts you back into, “Now I need to see what’s happening. I need to get
mysel oriented again. I need to make another decision quickly, and I need to act on
that decision.” And it needs to be now. And, that’s the process. They started training
these pilots on :. Observe what’s going on around you, gain as much inormation.
Now reality : Are we ever going to know 100 % o what’s going on around us?
00:15:57 Speaker 1
Are we ever going to have a ull complete picture? Probably not. But, that’s where
we have to orient ourselves to reality with as much inormation as possible. The

more I know about what’s happening, the better decisions I can make. And that
comes rom observing what is actually occurring around us. Now, the other loop
that they train The pilot’s on is called the ACE helix. Now, The ACE helix again is built
around the premise o “. There ’ s no situation so bad that you can’t make it worse.”
And or those who are amiliar with what you know, the shape o a helix he hazardly
describes it, but we all know that a helix is very much like a spiral. This is not a one
and done situation.
00:16:52 Speaker 1
Every time we make a decision, it creates a new reality, And we then have to make
our decisions based on the new reality that’s come about rom that decision. So it
continues to occur over and over. And ACE stands or Assess, Choose, and Execute.
So you notice it’s very amiliar to the OODA loop: Observe, Orient, Decide. And act
where assess takes that role o observe and orient. And when we assess the
situation, We have to ilter out all the variables because we need to look at high
yield acts. There’s a lot o stu and lu that goes on. Sometimes when you’re
trying to make a decision, extraneous noise that we need to ilter out. And, we need
to look at i we’re in a situation where a decision needs to occur rapidly,
00:17:51 Speaker 1
What is going to create a high yield in a short amount o time? Is it better to make a
phone call? Is it better to send a text message? I I, you know, what do I know?
Deine the problem. Be very clear about what we are, what you are going to be
addressing. What is the speciic problem we’re going to address with this decision?
And, what can happen in raming those decisions sometimes is that we try to make
too many decisions altogether as one decision. We may need to look at what is the
most immediate problem that needs to be solved immediately in order to get
oriented to make the next decision, to solve the next problem.
00:18:46 Speaker 1
And he says again, “don’t jump to conclusions.” Oh, and I just ound my typo. I hate
that. And that we need to reconstruct a clear picture o the situation rather than
relying on assumptions. Now, the F sixteen is a very unique aircrat. My daughter
and I share memes about the F sixteen all the time. She’s a crew chie on the F
sixteen or the U.S. Air Force; she’s active duty. And I shared one with her yesterday
that she got the giggles. And, it’s an F sixteen pilot standing next to an F sixteen
that has a number o the access hatches removed while the maintainers are
working on the aircrat. And Hazard Lee says, “You know, you want to know how
much trust we put in these maintainers? I’ve got an eighteen year old, I got a
teenager out there keeping this.”
00:19:43 Speaker 1
Aircrat in the air, and I’ve got to make sure they’re making good decisions. And as
crew chies, you have to make sure hers makes the right decisions. Well, In this
particular video, there’s an F - 16 pilot standing next to his aircrat that’s having

maintenance done on it. And he says, "Hmm, I wonder what this thing does? I have
no idea. I should probably ind out. " But, the last thing I’d want to do is ask a
maintainer what it does. And, she got the giggles because she’d shared an
experience with us when she was on a it’s called a T D Y temporary tour o duty last
summer in uh the Philippines, where they had an aircrat. One o their F sixteen s as
it was preparing or takeo, was running up beore it let the ground on the run on
takeo, sucked a very large bird into the engine.
00:20:39 Speaker 1
And, i you are amiliar with the shape o the F sixteen, it has a huge scoop
underneath. And it sucked that bird all the way through the engine and spit what
was let out o the back o the airplane. When that occurs. There are a number o
sensors in the aircrat that automatically shut it down. But, you can’t just turn the
engine o on that thing when it’s not on the ground, and t here is a whole process
they go through. The pilot successully landed the aircrat, they were able to recover
it, bring it back to th,e, Service bay, and she and her crew had to remove the engine
rom this airplane, Send it back to their base in Japan or a complete rebuild on the
engine. Every single part has to be pulled out and checked. And in the meantime,
they have to clean out the whole insides, the whole uselage o this aircrat. And so
or multiple days, the pilot assigned to the aircrat had nothing to do. His plane
can’t ly; it’s got no engine in it.
00:21:36 Speaker 1
And she was working on it one day, Cleaning bird guts out o the insides o this F
sixteen And. The pilot came over and started asking. He decided he’d help because
he had nothing else to do and started asking questions about the insides o the
airplane. She said, “Dad, I was surprised at how little he knows about what actually
keeps this plane in the air.” And as they were going through and cleaning the
aircrat. And while she’s doing that, She’s checking things that they usually can’t see
because there is an engine in the way. And, there happens to be a switch back in
the engine bay. That’s a nice big red switch. And the pilot said, “What does this one
do?” And she looked at him and said, “Don’t touch that.” He said, “Well, what does it
do?” She said, “You push that button. It turns o all o your avionics and shuts down
your aircrat. It’s basically the kill switch.”
00:22:35 Speaker 1
You know all those movies, you watched as a kid where they had the sel destruct
button that blinked bright red? It’s that. And the pilot looked at her and said, well,
why is it clear backed here? She just looked at him deadpan. So you can’t reach it
while in the cockpit. Again, there’s no situation so bad you can’t make it worse. You
push that button, yeah, you just made it worse. How many times have we been in a
situation where we wish there was like a sel destruct button. We could just push
the button to make it go away?

00:23:07 Speaker 1
We could make it worse. Now, in the situation Hazard Lee shares the experience o,
he was in a very high stress situation with his aircrat. And the F sixteen is i you are
amiliar with, it is an extremely volatile aircrat. It was designed or maximum speed
maximum maneuverability Least amount o armor, no protection or the pilot, And
it moves at such a high rate o speed and has so many things occurring to it at
once. I it weren’t or the onboard computer that runs it, pilots couldn’t keep it in
the air. They can ’ t ; the human body can’t move ast enough to make all the
decisions necessary to keep playing in the air. So, it’s got top-o-the-line avionics;
computer keeps in the air, and yet. The bottom corner.
00:24:05 Speaker 1
O, the heads up display is an old ashioned analog clock let over rom when the
irst series was released in nineteen seventy one. You have to wind this clock by
hand to make it work. And in the high stress situations where they’re having to
make decisions very rapidly, and they’re starting to eel overwhelmed, the phrase
that the pilots use is Wind the clock. They physically reach down and wind, this ity year- old dash panel clock because sometimes just that step o touching the
aircrat, doing something physical that breaks what their current sense o motion is,
everything they’re doing with the plane, physically and biologically resets their
brain.
00:25:04 Speaker 1
To this manual task that’s very old school, But it orces them to then reset what
they’re looking at and iltering their variables. Oh yeah, 'cause while I’m winding this
clock, I’m seeing other things occurring. I’m noticing things that I might’ve
overlooked on the panel. New data’s coming in. Okay, Now I can make a decision
without panicking and reaching back and hitting this button.
00:25:34 Speaker 1
That will knock me completely out o the sky. So as we ilter variables, sometimes
it’s okay to slow down, step back, take a deep breath and wind the clock. I the
decision ha– i we’ve got time to make the decision, Part o that iltering variables
process can be stepping back and just letting silence kick in or a minute to think. As
we deine the problem and and create this baseline, get as much inormation as
you can rom as many sources. It’s okay to say to a client, you know what? Let me
ind out more about that. Now, Simon Sinek, in many o his books has written that
one o the biggest mistakes that big companies make is they make their employees
araid to ask questions.
00:26:32 Speaker 1
They’re araid to ask, but i I do that, what will happen? So, they go o and make
decisions based on what they think should be the right answer, and then problems
occur. So it is perectly okay. Asha, how many times have you said to a client," You
know what? Let me ind out more about that."

00:26:56 Speaker 2
A lot. Okay. I I am wishy washy on, Um, I’d rather tell them that I need to ind out
more just to make sure. Um, rather than have to walk it back later.
00:27:17 Speaker 1
Yeah. So yeah, I don’t want to have to walk it back now. Part o the decision making
process, The iterative process is sometimes I am going to have to walk back a
decision. Nowum, Because I get more inormation that veriy that, you know. So
assess, get as much inormation as you can. Now part o that assessment process.
He points out is we have to choose what we’re going to do. We’re going to
brainstorm multiple options but set a deadline or when the ideas or when we’re
going to cut o getting new ideas.
00:27:57 Speaker 1
He said in the Air Force they use what’s called the two-thirds rule. I they have a
deadline by, you know, a decision has to be made by this date. I, we are we’re going
to take new ideas up to two - thirds the way up till that date. So that we have time to
now review all o the options we’ve come up with and make a good decision. Now I
said that doesn’t mean i somebody comes with an idea ater the two - thirds, we
automatically reject it, but they better have a really good. I. Really good reason why
they’re going to bring it in ater the two-thirds deadline. And, he shares an
experience in the book where somebody came in with a potential solution or a
high- risk problem at the beginning o the irst Gul War ater the two - thirds
deadline, And it was so o- the- wall that they almost rejected it because it was past
the two - thirds deadline.
00:28:57 Speaker 1
Until other until people started veriying that this guy’s not bragging, they really can
do what they say they can do with this equipment. And it’s the equipment that’ll get
the job done right. It was originally rejected by upper or the upper brass, simply
because o who was who it wasn’t set at the irst time. So they had they said, yeah, I
know we’re past the two thirds rule, but look at all these are things we can do. And
so they restructured what the decisions were. But sometimes our two-thirds rule,
we’ve only got a couple o hours to make a decision. I can’t still keep getting new
ideas all the way up to the very end. Now, when we look at you know what comes
up with our clients, What are the kinds o deadlines we have to ace that we have to
make decisions beore deadlines? What deadlines do we ace all the time?
00:30:02 Speaker 1
We know in the repsie we have our deadlines written right into there. I think or
me, Most oten the biggest deadline that requires the most creative thinking
otentimes is that due diligence deadline. How, are we going to work out due
diligence inspection or other concerns on due diligence in ways that we’ve got a
deadline has to be decided by. Five o’clock on this day, or there are negative

consequences or our buyer. Financing and appraisal. Asha, what were you going to
say?
00:30:41 Speaker 2
I've had the most deaults on the SPC deadline. Not me deaulting on it, but sellers
deaulting on that.
00:30:51 Speaker 1
Okay, so when a seller deaults on that, what decisions does your client have to
make?
00:31:01 Speaker 2
Whether it’s material or not to the transaction, like depending on what inormation
we’re still missing. Um, And then how they want to use that as leverage in the rest
o the transaction.
00:31:17 Speaker 1
Okay. How does that aect now their orienting orienting themselves to what what
the current reality is? Like you said, they’re going to have to decide well, how does
this aect the transaction? Do we go orward? Leverage is great to have.
00:31:33 Speaker 2
Do we cancel? Yeah, Do you want to cancel and blow up the whole deal? Or do you
want to use that as leverageum to get the amount o the earnest money back? Um
yeah, that one’s come up a lot or me.
00:31:50 Speaker 1
Okay, as a seller when I represent with listings, man getting those I know those are
tedious to get illed out. I’d rather have them illed out long beore a transaction, so
it’s not during a stressul time when they’re trying to do it. Because I know, like Asha
said, There’s a pretty good chance somebody’s going to be using this leverage i I
don’t get it sent to them on time. Well, let’s orient ourselves to the reality o that’s a
deadline we have to meet. How many are struggling right now with HOAs and
trying to get HOA docs on time?
00:32:25 Speaker 3
You got to start that process early.
00:32:28 Speaker 3
Like really early, which our TCS are pretty good at that by the way. Mhm. They’re
pretty good to start that process. But sometimes HOAs are still diicult.
00:32:40 Speaker 1
And i we don’t start that process until we’re under contract as a seller, we could be
too late.

00:32:48 Speaker 3
Well, I’ll tell you the advantage, i you started beore you go under contract and you
know that the HOA doesn’t have recent meeting minutes. You can counter out, you
can counter that section o the rep sheet where you say, "We don’t have these, ".
And so I’m countering out the meeting minutes because it has that listed in section
seven o your disclosure requirements. And i you contact DHA early, you can tell
them, “Oh, We don’t actually have this aspect or this aspect o what is in the rep
sheet.” Because it’s not acceptable to just say, “Oh,” like and this happens so oten
as a listing agent.
00:33:24 Speaker 3
Telling the buyer agent, “Oh, we they just don’t have that. We looked. You can try to
contact HOA yoursel.” Well, your seller signed saying you are going to give it to me,
So you are going to give it to me or you are going to deault. That’s really what it is.
But, a lot o this is a really lazy thing in our culture right now because you can press
them or deault or not giving you the eighty minutes. They say, “Well, I can’t give it
to you.” Well, You already signed, saying you were going to give it to me when you
accepted the receipt. You said you are going to give me the meeting minutes. Well,
HRA doesn’t have it. Well, then why did you accept this? That’s why it’s better to get
that inormation like right away as soon as you know that your that listing is going
live. No contact the HRA and see what you really can do or they can’t do.
00:34:11 Speaker 1
And, that is a very important part o that assess step o assess, choose and execute:,
assess what the reality is, what really is reality, what really is happening now. I will.
00:34:25 Speaker 2
Go live until I have. I won’t take the copy o the SP CDs and all the HOA documents.
Because, um, SPC deadline is usually three or our days ater you go in contract.
But, i it takes you a couple days and you have counter oers in there, you have to
be so careul that.
00:34:53 Speaker 2
Once you are oicially under contract, now you have less than twenty hours to get
all that ees over.
00:35:00 Speaker 1
Well, and this is a lesson I learned. And again, The reason these two models are
both loops is that it’s iterative;. We have to keep making decisions. But the best way
to make good decisions is to go back, Is to debrie and look at the decision was
made: what led up to it, what inormation did we use? Why was this decision made?
What was the result? What can be done dierent next time? I learned a lesson very
early rom a gentleman who used to be a broker. He now does mortgage loans
instead, Rob Aubrey. And I had sent an oer over and Rob was the broker, and we
had put three days ater acceptance or the disclosures deadline.

00:35:45 Speaker 1
And he called me up and and I’ve got a lot o respect or Rob because he says, look,
you know, probably looked it up. I was new. He said, Let me explain to you the the
situation. This puts my seller in and why we’re going to counter this three days or
that. This is a Friday. You’re sending this over to me, i you know, and I have to have
an updated um title report. I can’t get that in three days on a weekend. It’s not a
reasonable situation So, Understand the reason we’re countering this because we
need to be able to ulill the contract, but I can’t do that the way it’s written. And I
had a lot o respect or Rob because he didn’t talk down to me. He didn’t say, "What
you know, what were you thinking? Three days? Come on, be real. " He was very
proessional about it, but also explaining this why we’re going to do it this way. And
it changed the way that I did oers ater that. Realizing that yeah, that’s probably
too short o a deadline. Three days on a Wednesday might work.
00:36:43 Speaker 1
But three days on a Friday or that deadline might not work. Yeah, I hate I do not
want to go live without HOA docs. Trust documents are an issue i you know it’s in a
trust. Probate documents i it’s in probate, the more o those you have beore you
go live, the better your reality is that you’re oriented toward with the listing. Now
let’s switch back over to the other one here.
00:37:12 Speaker 1
We have to choose. One o those processes is calculating, evaluate the value o
ideas, giving a risk score, probability versus loss or what’s the probability times the
loss actor. What’s the probability o this working multiplied by how oten it’s worked
in the past? Because sometimes people will make decisions based on, What it looks
like on the ace without thinking long term. Hazor Lee uses an example that I use
while teaching school. I can give you a million dollars today, Or I can give you a
penny on the irst day o the month and double it each day o the month until the
end o the month. You get to keep the penny you got, So each day you get to keep
the stack o pennies I give you all the way till the end o the month.
00:38:09 Speaker 1
Now Craig, you know the answer. Which one makes more sense? Penny a day, you
get more than twice o what you would. But otentimes buyers and sellers just see
the penny as a low amount. It doesn’t make sense to them. That’s what is reerred
to as a power law. Some types o decisions are going to have an outsized eect,
Have a greater eect than others when negotiating or repairs. Sometimes it makes
more sense to you’ve got three major repair, three repairs that absolutely need to
be done. Hit them with all eighteen now ;. It’s easier to talk them down to three, i
only i I only start with those three and the seller.
00:39:10 Speaker 1
Fights me with it. I’ve lost my leverage. The power is not there. Talking with you
know, having talking with their lenders about what does make more sense, Putting

money toward the down payment or putting money toward closing costs or putting
money toward buying points. Is a three two one buy down really worth it long term?
How long are you going to be in this house? I you’re not going to be here multiple
years, a three two one buy down, Doesn’t make the money back. You can use it
smarter other ways. So, those nonlinear solutions, decisions that can have an
outsized eect. And then o course the last step execute. We make a choice we have
to do it now in cognitive psychology.
00:40:09 Speaker 1
He doesn’t include this in his book, but in cognitive psychology there is a phrase
known as amygdala hijacking. The amygdala is the part o the human brain that is
responsible or controlling and maintaining the ight or light response, and that is
the stress response. Stress and the ight or light response itsel is not a negative
thing. The body evolved that way and has Was created and was created that way
and has continued to evolve that way because it works. Here’s what happens with
the amygdala hijacking. In high stress situations, the amygdala pumps adrenaline
and cortisol into the system. Adrenaline increases your heart rate, increases your
breath rate, tenses up your muscles, and you get ready.
00:41:06 Speaker 1
To ight. It also redirects the blood low in your brain, And it redirects it rom the
neocortex. And the prerontal cortex is at the ront that’s responsible or the
decision - making process and pushes it to the back o the brain that’s responsible
or the ight or light response. And as long as you’re in that elevated emotional
state, There is less and less blood lowing to the part o the brain that biologically is
responsible or higher thinking. I would teach this to eleven-year-olds when they
get in trouble, and the principal would say, “What were you thinking?” And the kid
would say, “I don’t know.” They’re not mouthing o; they biologically don’t know
what they were thinking. No memory was created ;. They weren’t thinking because
there wasn’t any blood in that part o their brain.
00:42:00 Speaker 1
How, many people do we know that live and operate constantly in that high stress
ight or light mentality or body mode? That when you ask them to make an
intelligent decision, i you’re like, can you just not think biologically, they can’t. The
blood’s not in the right part o the brain. That’s when you have to step back, take a
deep breath and regain control o your body. You’ll notice when otentimes you get
anxious, you make a ist. I you’ve got a client who you notice is nervous and is
doing this, hand them a pen to hold on to. They can’t make a ist. There’s a whole
row o neuroreceptors across the palm o your hand, that when you make a ist, tell
the brain I’m getting ready to punch somebody and immediately puts the brain into
that ight or light mode. When they open the hand, it turns all those receptors o.
It turns o the I’m going to punch somebody mode. Hand them something.

00:43:00 Speaker 1
They have to open their hand. Now it turns those sensors o. Change your body
position, so they have to move their body to match your body position. They’ll do it
instinctually, But it will change them rom i they’re like this, and you put your hands
down, just shake your hands, put your hands down, they’ll otentimes mimic you.
They’ll get out o that ight or light mode, and it will get you out o that ight or
light mode so that the brain can unction. It’s part o the wind. The clock do
something physical to reset the brain so that it can make a decision that isn’t based
on emotion. Hardest part about working with buyers and sellers is they’re making a
very rational decision in a very irrational emotional environment. How many times
have we had to work with a client that you just their decisions seem completely?
00:43:57 Speaker 1
Irrational and emotional, and emotion based. That then seem to get worse down
the line. There’s no situation so bad you can’t make it worse. Get them out o the
ight or light mode, manage the stress or cognitive clarity. Avoid complacency,
okay? I’ll tell you, I’ll tell this story on mysel. Very early working with Marty, when
Marty and I irst started working together, Marty did not have an operating system.
He just did all o his transactions in his head and tried to keep track o all o it in his
head. How, I don’t know. He did thirty transactions the year beore I met him, all in
his head. And he realized he was dropping things. He couldn’t keep oriented and
execute ast enough. Okay, And you guys get to watch me ix another typo because
it’s going to bug me.
00:44:56 Speaker 1
So I had to go through the process o working with him, going, "Okay Marty, what
comes next? What comes next? What comes next? " So start making me a list o
things to do so that I can get things done in the right order. Filled out a Repsy or
him. Did paragraph two, everybody’s avorite part, the math. Sent it over or him to
review. He calls me up and says, “You need to check paragraph two.” I said, “Marty, I
taught math or twenty years. I know how to do paragraph two shit.” And I had
done the math wrong, But I was so complacent, and so arrogant about " I know
how to do the math. " I did the math wrong and sent it o without even bothering
to recheck it. When I get done writing an oer now, I start at the bottom o the
contract and read it backward to check everything to make sure it’s done right.
Because as soon as you’re clicking this reading it orward, your brain automatically
ills in what it thinks should have been there.
00:45:53 Speaker 1
It creates a alse reality. I I read it backward, when you read it backwards, your
brain can’t do that because it’s going in the wrong order. It has to pay attention to
the details. Did I do this right? I I write an addendum, Go back and start at the
bottom and read it rom the bottom up to make sure everything’s there to get out
o that complacency. And then ater a decision is made and ater an event is over

Debrie and iterate. Learn rom the experience. An F-16 is designed to be in the air
or about an hour, or 90 minutes to two hours at a time. My daughter has pointed
out that the current situation in the world, The pilots and the aircrat have been
under extreme stress because they’ve been keeping them in the air or up to eight
hours at a time. An aircrat and a pilot is designed to be up in the air or two hours.
00:46:52 Speaker 1
Um, they don’t have time. Otentimes, They don’t have the right amount o time to
stand aterward and talk about it. Hazle talks about that ater a ninety minute
training with pilots on the F thirty ive, they can spend two to three days reviewing
everything that happened all the video, the video rom the pilot’s cabin, the video
rom the trainer’s aircrat, the data that all the computer keeps, the notes that the
pilot, As soon as the pilots on the ground write down everything they remember
happened, because human memory is allible, And they’ll spend days and days and
two or three days reviewing what happened in ninety minutes to two hours. He
says, “Now does that sound excessive? Could be, but when your lie is on the line,
maybe not.” Because you start to notice things. And in part o that iteration process
is to look or patterns. What are common things you see happening?
00:47:49 Speaker 1
I you’ve got a client who’s look or patterns in your client’s behavior, And i they’re
always behaving the same way and it’s making it diicult or them to make a
decision, we need to help them learn another way to think, to unction. Look or
patterns in the reps. Common mistakes that can be made. Look or patterns with
your seller. What are they saying yes to? What are they saying no to? What do they
keep repeating? Because that’s an iterative process or them, and they may need to
Greg describes it as. Predict the uture or them.
00:48:22 Speaker 3
Yeah, it’s all about expectation management.
00:48:26 Speaker 1
Expectation management: i you do this, this is what my experience has shown us
happen. Let me let me give you that iteration in advance, Greg. When, you’ve got a
client that wants to list way at the top o the price range, what are the iterations
that you’re going to be able to present to them?
00:48:45 Speaker 3
Yeah, well I let them know.
00:48:48 Speaker 3
I don’t want them ever to say, “Craig, you didn’t set my expectations correctly.” I
don’t want to say that. So then when they say that, I say, “Expect that you will have
no showings during the week. You may have a showing come to an open house and
maybe two people, but you will have no one scheduling during the week. The

people coming to the open house also won’t be interested at, especially at price.”
That there are and I’ll give them hard data. I’ll say, “Look,” I’ll go back and get you
the number o properties competing with you that are not going to that people
would see and buy irst. But I try to I try to manage this during the market analysis
process anyway because I’ll, I will I will try to give them properties. They can see are
clearly better than theirs, that are that is clearly priced lower than theirs, So they
can see that there’s just no way i that other property is not selling and it’s orty ive
days on market, then even i you’re priced equivalent to it.
00:49:45 Speaker 3
They’re orty ive days out and still haven’t got an oer. Why wouldn’t you badge it
to come in and grab one? So that idea, that that’s sort o the process I go through
with that.
00:49:55 Speaker 1
But that’s an important part o that observe or assess, gain the knowledge, gain the
most inormation you can so they’re oriented toward reality, not emotion based. It’s
rational based. And then help them iterate ater the open house, ater the showing,
ater the end o the irst week. Well, Here is what let’s observe and see what’s going
on now so that we continue to work through that process. Now, like I said at the
beginning, He hazardly makes a point out o pointing out that we just assume
adults know how to do this ;. We just assume they’ve learned how to make wise or
make intelligent decisions.
00:50:43 Speaker 1
Make inormed decisions. We assume that’s their background. They were bringing
in pilots who these were in a room ull o thirty pilots, two would qualiy as ighter
pilots, the remaining twenty eight would wash out and ly something else. But
everybody walked in expecting to be a ighter pilot. These were already the top
thirty in their class, And he said, the ones who washed out the astest are the ones
who had never learned. How to go through a cognitive decision-making process.
They could give you all the stats, all the data, Some o his top students in terms o
what they could score on traditional measures on a written test. We all know the
120 hours or the written test in real estate doesn’t teach you anything about how
to actually do real estate. It’s a skill that we have to learn and practice.
00:51:40 Speaker 1
Sometimes we have time to make a decision. The planning and run-up to the irst
Gul War took over six months. Planning and preparing or the irst orty-eight
hours o that conlict. We don’t always have that much time. Yeah, sometimes we
are lying along at a high rate o speed through a transaction, something comes up,
we have to be responsible or our clients and or our connections That we’re going
to make this decision rationally. And that can be hard when the other side’s
responding emotionally. So that we can help our clients go through that process o
observing the data, orienting toward the actual reality, making a decision and

acting on it. And then accepting that what happens rom their choice, we’re going to
make the choice that makes the most sense, but there’s always going to be a risk o
ailure.
00:52:37 Speaker 1
One o the experiences Hazarded Lee shares in his book, one option had a 50%
chance o ailure. One option had a 75% chance o ailure. He went with the 75 %
chance o ailure because it was less chance o ailure, Knowing that he still had a
one in our chance o the whole thing going wrong, but he had a three out o our
chance or going right. Our clients always need to understand t here is always
going to be some risk. We’ll control or all the actors we can and make lies
decisions that way, and then we move orward. Okay, I haven’t done it yet. I am
actually gonna i just inished this book. I am actually gonna make an OODA and ACE
sign to put on my wall to remind mysel that I need to go through those decisions
sometimes because yes, there have been times when there are times when yeah, I
just want to just say you know.
00:53:32 Speaker 1
I want to go o an emotional choice and not a rational one, and that’s not in
anybody’s best interest. So, I you haven’t had a chance ind ind the book " T, he Art
o um The Art o Clear T hin king " on Amazon. It is a real quick read. Your heart will
race through some o the stories he tells o that he uses as illustrations or me. It
was kind o personal, like I guess my daughter ixes puts F sixteen s into the air. But
his whole point is, we have to make good decisions or those we represent. And he
says, you know, in our daily lives as well. And i you write, i we go through this loop
and make planned decisions, we’ll be better o. Any questions?
00:54:25 Speaker 3
Thanks Aaron. Thanks or the ino. Okay.
00:54:30 Speaker 1
We will see you tomorrow same same time. Tomorrow, Craig, what are you doing?
00:54:36 Speaker 3
Eleven o’clock business building.
00:54:38 Speaker 1
Business building. Okay.

