2025 Dec 10 Common REPC Errors to
Avoid
2026-08-11 14:33:25

00:00:08 Speaker 1
Brian didn’t waste any time. He’s in. Oh, okay, it’s being recorded.
00:00:17 Speaker 2
Okay, Common errors with the Repsy Brian. Um let me ask you this Brian. What
have been the mistakes that you’ve seen people making recently on the Repsy that
we need, you know, need help avoiding I mean besides making up that they have
oers that don’t Existum.
00:00:38 Speaker 3
I don’t know. I’ve got to think about it. I mean, Most o the errors I end up seeing is
like like putting in the buyer wrong or the seller wrong. I don’t, I mean, i don’t it’s
the i think The iterations have gotten better. I think you may have more ino, i mean
have more insight than i would on that.
00:01:00 Speaker 2
Okay, yeah, a couple o things I wanted to start withum irst o all, Are dealing with
the earnest money. And, this came up because we had a client who was ity
thousand dollars, earnest money is what they were going to be providing. So it was
put into the contract, It would be ity thousand dollars earnest money in the orm
o a check or wire transer, which is what we usually do. Except that the bank
wouldn’t.
00:01:30 Speaker 2
A $50,000 wire transer. There are a lot o ees we have to pay and the sender and
the seller or excuse me, client had to pay. So they decided, well, rather than do the
wire transer, they would use a cashier’s check. Well cashier’s checks are acceptable.
Lenders tend to rown on them a little bit because it’s harder to check the seasoning
on the money. Where did the money come rom or the cashier’s check? But they’ll
take them. Just know that it could become a lending issue. Well, then we got a
message that, well, really what they want to do is take $30,000 as a cashier’s check.
And this is a buyer that’s out o state. So, can they mail us a cashier’s check and then
send and then make arrangements or 20,000 in cash?
00:02:29 Speaker 2
No, no, can’t do it. As a brokerage, we can’t handle cash. And, it would have been a

violation o the contract to walk in with cash. It was a lot messier than it needed to
be i the client had just ollowed the directions, right? The irst time. And, o course,
every day that there’s delays we’re getting closer and closer to the our calendar
days.
00:02:59 Speaker 2
So i you’ve got clients who are looking at using a wire transer, let them know that
it’s not so much an error in the contract. It’s, it’s an aspect that they need to
understand that i they’re going to use a wire transer or their earnest money, i
they’re putting ive thousand dollars earnest money, they’re going to be paying a
wire transer ee as well. Fiteen or twenty dollars iteen to twenty dollars typically
depending on the bank that’s doing the wire transer.
00:03:29 Speaker 2
They need to plan ahead or that. And it’s not considered received until we have the
receipt on our end. So, i they go in the day, it’s due and try to do a wire transer, you
know, They need to understand that we don’t actually have it until we have the
receipt on our end. And that sometimes could be the next business day. So plan
ahead, especially i it’s a weekend. Um, I holidays or weekends are going to get in
the way o those our calendar days, Go ahead and put an addendum in there
initially that extends that so that they’ve got time to take care o it. We had another
question come up yesterday, and this is one I’d love to hear your take on. Keaton
sent a text message asking, they’re stating that the title company had inormed the
buyer that.
00:04:27 Speaker 2
They could hold the ive thousand dollars earnest money, one deposit o ive
thousand dollars or ive contracts. And o course he wants to know, well you know
can we do that? What I didn’t ind out is what was that ive one thousand dollar
deposits or was he expecting. He’d written $5,000 earnest money on ive dierent
contracts and just wanted to put $5,000 in once. And the title company told him,
sure. My response was, uh no. Not unless it’s in writing that that $5,000 covers all
ive. Otherwise it violated the contract because those are ive separate contracts,
ive separate commitments or $5,000.
00:05:25 Speaker 2
And Marty had responded something similar as well. Unless you’ve got an
addendum that states that ive thousand is or all ive, no, we’re not doing it. And
my other concern was i he deaults on more than one contract and it’s ive
thousand or each. And the title company’s only holding ive thousand, Then the
sellers are going to be suing pretty quick to get their ive grand.
00:05:54 Speaker 2
The other thing we’ve seen come up lately has been paragraph 1.1 with the
included items. And I had one come up that I have not had happen beore. We

know that it says right in here, all window coverings, curtains, drapery rods, window
blinds, shutters, windows screen doors storm doors windows awnings all the stu
that’s mounted. Right, there are attachments. Apparently, it was an ugly divorce or
the seller’s side. They cleaned out the house when they moved out. Joel’s buyers
walked in ;. They took all the mounting hardware and all o the rods out o the
closets.
00:06:52 Speaker 2
Now, were those included or excluded? Well,
00:06:59 Speaker 3
And you bring up a good point, Darren. And, this is what I see quite oten is and
mainly kind o old school agents do this, but in other included items, they’ll throw
stu like curtains, draperies, window blinds, ceiling ans. It’s already included. You
don’t have to write it in other as well. And I see that, I see that quite oten, and I am
just sitting here going," What a reaking waste o time." Just go orward.
00:07:34 Speaker 2
Yeah, you are wasting my time and it’s redundant in this case. You know Joel says,"
W ell do I just spend more o my clients to get the to go buy new ones?" I said, no,
you call the listing agent. You get the money out o him because the contract also
said the contract also states. That the house has to be delivered in the condition it
was in when they went under contract. When they went under contract, there were
rods in the and hardware in the closets. And i it’s mounted to the wall, it’s assumed
to be included. So at this point, You know, nobody’s walked away with that beore or
oten enough that the attorneys had to add it to the list. We shouldn’t have to.
00:08:22 Speaker 2
But at this point, he’s just doing the best he can to try to, you know, work it and pass
or his clients. But now they’re walking in and there is stu missing. We actually had
a client who showed up to move in, and the mantle over the ireplace was gone. The
hardware was still sticking out o the wall; there was no mantle there. Their agent
called the listing agent, “Well, what is going on?” They said, “Oh, well, They told me
it was like a amily heirloom that grandpa made, and they took it with them.” But
the original one’s out in the garage. No, that’s not not the way it works. You, you
don’t walk o with something mounted to the wall unless it’s speciically excluded.
Landscaping is also an issue. Um and you know the again, you don’t go dig up the
lowers or dig up the trees and move them.
00:09:23 Speaker 2
Water rights. How oten have you had to deal with water rights, Brian?
00:09:29 Speaker 3
I've only had one that was a water right.

00:09:32 Speaker 2
Okay, was it water rights or water shares?
00:09:35 Speaker 3
No, it was water rights, not shares.
00:09:37 Speaker 2
So it was a well on the property.
00:09:41 Speaker 3
It was shared between our houses.
00:09:46 Speaker 2
One well, our houses. Okay. Yeah Was it.
00:09:51 Speaker 3
Yeah we got in there, Involved just to make sure it was done right, butum, cause
there were some nuances associated with that, but.
00:09:59 Speaker 2
Right. And that that makes sense to make sure that everything’s covered. Was the
well on their property or was it on a dierent property?
00:10:07 Speaker 3
So it was kind o an interestingum. It was kind o like uh straddling two dierent
properties. Wow. Yeah, it was a super unique situation. It was in Mount Pleasant.
00:10:24 Speaker 2
Okay, see, I had one out in Tara last year that the the well served two homes side by
side. The well was basically at the property line, you know, kind o straddled the
property like yours was, But the pump house itsel was on the property. My client
was purchasing, and it was VA. And interestingly, The only thing the VA required
was that they had the sort o annual certiication that because it was the water or
the house, not irrigation water, it had to have the annual certiication through. The
board o health that the water was clean and sae or consumption. I’ve also had a
well on a property out in Helper.
00:11:13 Speaker 2
And again, the lender it was VA, so the lender required that certiication. Um, have
you dealt with any water shares where with the transer o water shares? No. Okay.
How amiliar are are you with those?
00:11:30 Speaker 3
Um, I am airly amiliar. I bought water shares when I bought my house in St
George. Makes sense. We had to do a transer o water shares or that. It wasum
irst property in, Saint George with a house on it, so there was some other speciic
things,

00:11:46 Speaker 2
But okay. And I’ve dealt with that a couple o times. That’s where title took care o it
and made sure the transer was done properly because a lot o agents aren’t aware
that the water shares can be retained by the owner. Water shares are separate;
they’re personal property and so they can be excluded. The one I had that was the
most unique was actually up in Holiday. Because the homes were built right ater
World War Two on what was originally orchards, So there was still the original
pioneer era canal down the middle o the old orchard, and that’s how everybody
watered their lawns. And. So they all had water shares in this hundred plus year old
water company that just ran that one little canal down the middle o the
neighborhood.
00:12:39 Speaker 2
I think the next the next big mistake, we see paragraph two is just making sure the
math adds up right. Thank you, Sean.
00:12:48 Speaker 3
Yeah, one other I was thinking speciically on included items. Yeah, This happened
to me twice whereum not to me as representing the seller. But as the buyer, we’ve
put an oer in where we’ve included the rerigerator. Um, We’ve thrown it in there,
although the the MLS she had it listed that it was excluded. We wanted so in our
oer we put it as an inclusion. And um in both cases the seller’s agent didn’t notice
it. Um and I had to like, We got close the irst time. I didn’t even say anything, and
we had a little bit o an issue when we took possession o the house, their
rerigerator wasn’t there anymore. But the second one.
00:13:35 Speaker 3
I mentioned it to ahead o time because I learned my lesson to say, “Hey, just so you
know, this contract includes that rerigerator inclusion.” Let your clients know. Both
agents didn’t look at that. So i you are representing a seller and you see an oer
come in, make sure to read the whole contract. Don’t just look at the purchase price
and say this is what it’s at. See, i t here is anything included in there To, your point
about the water shares and things like that, I think a lot o times as sellers when
you are getting multiple oers, you get really excited. Look into the the details o
the o the contract because there might be something that the agent threw in there
that he didn’t know about.
00:14:12 Speaker 2
On the on the net sheet that I use as a listing agent, I actually have a page where it
has, the inclusions listed. So that i somebody tries to pull that, we can say to your
client and I can say to my client look, somebody’s asking this be included as well.
Are you ready to go buy another ridge? And I’ve talked to agents who’ve had
who’ve admitted that, yeah, they didn’t catch that either. And they had to go buy
their client a ridge because they messed up. As listing agent, you are responsible
or reading that contract to make sure everything’s right. That can also get messy i

they’re buying personal items on a separate bill o sale. I’ve had lenders who have
come back and said, “Look, we don’t want the basketball standard or the hot tub.”
00:15:00 Speaker 2
Things like that, that included as part o the inclusions on the rei because they’re
not attached, they’re not permanent, And the lender didn’t want to did not want to
include those into the loan amount as value to the home. Hot tubs don’t sitting on
the back porch don’t really add value. So we had to go and do this separate bill o
sale. Yeah, ridge always mark check i they marked ridge. Um, paragraph two. I
think our biggest thing is make sure the math is right, especially i you are doing
seller inancing. What amounts being inanced? Um, We usually I usually
recommend that any any places that are going to be blank. So or example, the
additional earnest money or seller inancing.
00:15:56 Speaker 2
I you’re not using those, put zeros in there just so that visually, You know, as as a
listing agent I’m looking at make sure that is there something there or not. I it’s
zeros, it’s pretty obvious. This one came up again recently again as well, because
settlement was going to be on a late or on a midday on Friday. What is the
dierence between settlement and closing?
00:16:27 Speaker 2
And who and when do you get possession? See, settlement is when everything’s
signed, all the paperwork’s delivered, all the money is delivered. That could occur on
a Friday. But, how oten do we have when it all that gets done Friday, but it hasn’t
actually been recorded by the county yet? See, that’s closing and that can Under
contract, we have up to our days. Honestly, that’s why I really try to avoid Friday
signings. Just because i something goes wrong, it’s going to be Monday beore it’s
done. And, we’ve had buyers that just assumed they were going to get to move in
that day. And so they got all their riends lined up, they got the truck lined up, They
got the beer and pizza lined up, and then they ind out they can’t move in.
00:17:29 Speaker 2
It’s also messy when holidays. And once you get outside o the Wasatch Front, it can
also depend on the county recorder. Juab County Recorder only works hal days on
Thursdays and isn’t open on Friday. My client that was selling, who lived out o
state, blew a cork when he ound that out. I don’t have control over when the
recorder’s oice is open.
00:18:00 Speaker 2
I've noticed that Stephanie Ferguson on Real Advantage with her team has been
sending out with her emails this month to go out to our our clients, reminders o
the days that the holidays and the days that, The county oices are going to be
closed so that you make plans around that. So they understand. Just because we
signed on. Monday at three in the aternoon doesn’t mean I’m getting keys by

Monday at ive. In act, probably not. Ah, HOA other entity ees due upon change o
ownership. What are those? And who pays them?
00:19:00 Speaker 2
See, There is typically two dierent ees that can be charged by the H O A. There is
the reinvestment ee, Which is dollar amount or percentage o purchase price that
goes into the operating account. But then there is otentimes that separate ee, it’s
the H O A transer ee, Which is the ee they charge to do the paperwork to set up
the new H O A account.
00:19:25 Speaker 2
And I’ve seen some o those HOA reinvestment ees. The state o Utah does not
limit the amount depending on when the property was built. There now are limits
on the amount o what that HOA reinvestment ee can be as a percentage o the
purchase price, but only ater HOAs that were established.
00:19:51 Speaker 2
Three years ago, so some o these older HOAs, I showed a home in the original
Eagle Mountain years ago. They had a one and a hal percent o purchase price was
the HOA transer ee. And even when the market was super super busy, the sellers
couldn’t understand why weren’t they selling? Well, Nobody wanted to have to
cough up another one and a hal percent to buy the house.
00:20:20 Speaker 2
Those are now limited, and i there are questions about them, the state now has an
HOA Ombudsman position through the Division o Real Estate. That, i an HOA or
someone who’s looking to buy into an HOA or move into an HOA have questions
about the HOAs, CC and Rs or contracts, they can go to the state ombudsman or an
opinion on what to do. It’s a new oice; it’s just getting started. They just Opened it
up a couple months ago, but i you have questions about an HOA, especially about
transer ees and are they within the guidelines, contact the ombudsman’s oice
and say here is what I am being told. It’s also something that we need to as listing
agents to make sure it’s accurate on the listing. I’ve pulled up condos or townhomes
in the same development. I have a whole you know two or three active listings side
by side.
00:21:18 Speaker 2
And have two or three dierent answers on what the transer ee is. You know, do a
little bit o homework, make sure it works. Okay, the compensation. This is one o
the ew times in this in this new contract that Curtis Bullock, the other Bullock we all
listen to, the attorney that’s head o the Um, Salt Lake Board has said, be very clear
about this dollar percentage or dollar amount here because they had a client, an
agent who put a percentage or and they put zero put zeros in the dollar box and
their attorney argued.

00:22:17 Speaker 2
Unortunately, successully that the contract was stated it would be percentage or
zero dollars, and their buyer was opting or the zero dollar amount. And the seller
was opting. The seller went, “Oh, wait, what?” The agent could not enorce this to
have the seller. Compensate because they had a zero dollar in there. So i you’re
doing a percentage, put does not apply. I you’re doing a percentage or a dollar
amount, put the dollar amount but does not apply in the percentage. Don’t leave a
zero in those spots because, unortunately, the attorneys at the UAR didn’t see this
one coming. And it’s been successully litigated. Same as on the buyer broker
agency agreement and the ERS.
00:23:15 Speaker 2
I it’s a dollar amount or percentage, Make sure one has the answer, and one is
marked " do not apply ", so you don’t get caught. And one thing that has changed
with VA is that prior to SITSA, prior to August o last year, VA buyers were not
allowed to pay. Buyer agent compensation outside o closing. So i the seller wasn’t
going to pay it, then the buyer, you know, then we go to our buyer and say you pay
us. VA did not allow that. But with the changes rom the Sitzer and the Burnett
cases, VA sent out a circular that temporarily suspended that order.
00:24:09 Speaker 2
And, it took an act o Congress to remove that rom the VA lender’s guidelines. So, a
VA buyer can now pay buyer agent compensation outside o closing, just the way
any other buyer can. I got burned on that my irst year where a lender approved a
VA loan, even though the contract said that the buyer was paying the compensation
to our brokerage outside o closing. It went through closing. We went to get the
compensation. Lenders looked at it and said, “Oh, our underwriter should have
never approved that loan.” You can’t pay that outside o closing. And at the time, it
was just Marty and I, And we were with a dierent brokerage that was a you paid
your ive hundred dollars lat ee. So that broker wasn’t worth his time to go ater
the compensation because he was only going to get ive hundred dollars anyway.
So I never got paid or that deal. So I’ve been you know.
00:25:09 Speaker 2
Very careul about checking the compensation agreements to make sure that they
ollow guidelines. Okay, another one that’s come up a lot has been seller
disclosures, and I know Craig said this a lot too. I, there’s something speciic about
a property that you that your buyer wants disclosed that’s not already on this list,
put it on the other line. And one thing that’s new that some agents aren’t paying
attention to is that they need to check to see, need to veriy whether or not the
property is in a P I D, public improvement district. Because that’s a separate taxing
district and that has to be disclosed.
00:26:06 Speaker 2
By the seller to the buyer. And we had a new construction that didn’t include that.

And, when the buyer got the title report that indicated it was in this public
improvement district and how much they would be paying in taxes or 20 years as
an additional tax on their property tax, it added up to about between $45, 000 and
$50, 000. In additional property tax over the next twenty years. And they backed
out. They said, “We’re not doing it.” You didn’t disclose it. And the seller’s agent got
kind o huy about it. And because they put a, it was new construction, they put a
deposit down. They’d already had the inspection done when we got a hold o this
that it was in this PID. And hadn’t been disclosed.
00:27:04 Speaker 2
The proposal that we made to the other agent was, "Look, all the buyers want out
o this is the cost o their inspection. " And, the agent got kind o was new and
young and got kind o happy about it. We said, “Look, the other option is because
you deaulted by not providing this. This, you got like it was twenty or thirty
thousand dollars, earnest money or deposit at that point that we could sue the
builder or because you didn’t disclose this.” And one o the The phone
conversations that occurred with her broker on the line, you could hear the broker
going, “I’ll take care o this.” Basically telling her, “Quit talking. Quit making this
worse.” We’re not seeing that a lot yet. But anytime you’re working with new
construction, It’s now I recommend you check and make sure is it in a public
improvement district? That is a separate taxing district that the developer can now
create.
00:28:03 Speaker 2
To pay or roads, gutters, sewer all those improvements that they have to put in.
But it obligates whoever buys the property that they’re usually on about. It’s a bond
that’s purchased. And it could be up to twenty years that they’re going to have this
additional cost on their property tax until that bond is paid o. All o the owners in
that, you know, homeowners in that development when they sell that property, they
have to disclose it as well so they could you know buy a Townhome now that’s in a
PID sell it in ive years. They have to disclose that there’s this additional taxing
district that you’re part o. Thankully we’re not seeing as many people marking due
diligence is not a condition. That was a big mistake. People, you know, agents were
recommending to buyers. When it was there was the buying renzy, we’ll just skip
due diligence and then buyers moving into houses that were a wreck.
00:29:01 Speaker 2
And, we’re suing their agents because, well, you told me not to do an inspection
that would make it easier to buy the house, and it’s a rack.
00:29:19 Speaker 2
Appraisal This one’s been interesting lately. I know Brian you’ve been in on a couple
o the trainings we’ve gone over appraisals that came in low. Um, When you
represent a buyer, i an appraisal comes in below purchase the agreed on purchase
price, what do you do?

00:29:41 Speaker 3
I mean it depends. You have theum you have your buyer’s back. So many times you
could kind o oer a lower amount based on appraisal price. In act, this house that
we were just talking about beore we started recording. Or we pulled comps and
got an eight ity price. She’s oering nine hundred. Um, I am airly conident it
won’t appraise or nine hundred, and then i it doesn’t, we’ll adjust our oer
accordingly. Yeah, but i you’ve got appraisal, you can always submit a.
00:30:19 Speaker 2
You can you can submit or a reappraisal. I know one o them that we used as one
o our our sessions about an appraisal that came in dramatically low. That also had
a number o signiicant errors in it. You know, no credit or the solar panels. It was
only house in the neighborhood with solar panels. Wrong or incorrect data on the
square ootage. I mean, the appraisal came in about thirty ive thousand below the
contract price, which was already about twenty thousand below the initial list price.
So, the seller o course wasn’t going to make any changes. Lender had requested.
00:30:57 Speaker 2
Had had reached out to the AMC about the appraisal, and the appraiser reused to
make any changes. So, lender can’t get the loan approved. So, lender’s going to lose
the ile. Lender supervisor because it was a conventional loan approved ordering a
new appraisal. Well, we ound out recently by the time all o the dust settled.
00:31:23 Speaker 2
The lender had so many rustrations with that appraiser and the errors that were
made in the appraisal, and the ight they had with the AMC appraisal management
company. The AMC dropped that appraiser as one that they would send appraisals
to ; basically ired him because there were so many errors in the appraisal. We had
our buyers back, yeah, Our buyer would have loved to have gotten in the house or
thirty ive thousand less, but knew they couldn’t; seller couldn’t do it. Um.
00:31:56 Speaker 2
And you know, we we i it’s come i there’s something that happens, let’s take a look
at it. Let’s see what why it’s coming in the way it is. Appraisers are human beings
and have their own opinions, but that doesn’t mean they don’t make mistakes. One
that gets a little bit o heat can get pretty heated is buyer’s right to cancel ater
inding the due diligence. Beore inancing an appraisal, i a buyer cancels in that
time period, what grounds do they have or canceling? What reasoning can they
use? Any. Not really.
00:32:47 Speaker 3
Well, they have to use the inancing and appraisal reasoning, however. They can i
the house appraises or a hundred thousand dollars more than what it’s worth, they
can turn around and say, “I don’t like that,” and they can cancel. You don’t have to
prove. There is nothing in the Repsy that says you have to prove that they’re

canceling speciically or a inancing or appraisal reason. So yes, technically they’ve
got to cancel or a inancing appraisal reason, but you don’t have to prove it. There
is no way.
00:33:21 Speaker 2
And that’s and that’s where it can get, you know, I the seller wants proo that they
didn’t qualiy or the loan or they because they can, you know, They can cancel or,
you know, didn’t like the loan terms or the payment or whatever. What happened,
unortunately, is that is that agents were advertising that as another chance to get
out. Like a second due diligence backup. And and there were a number o cases.
Ethics cases, as well as just straight up litigation, hit the board over: “Hey, you know,
I want proo that they didn’t qualiy or the loan,” or “Where’s the proo that the
appraisal came in low?” “Where’s the proo that they’re actually using a inancing
reason or canceling?” Because it says: “Buyer ails to obtain the loan,” meaning the
proceeds o loan have not been delivered. And that’s other thing is there have been
cases.
00:34:19 Speaker 2
Happened here in Utah. It’s one o those glaring, I cannot believe somebody did
that. That was brought up in an ethics class I took. Buyers and sellers signed on
Friday aternoon. Home was vacant. Seller get in writing gave written permission
or buyers to put buyer’s personal property, In the garage o the home, but not take
possession until ater closing, which was going to occur on Monday. Mindy’s here.
00:34:57 Speaker 4
Woo! Can you stick this on your I am guessing it’s your desk or mine? Yep. I can stick
it down there or you. Okay, this is her This is a small thank you and merry
Christmas. Be careul there once my excited dog Thank you You are welcome No,
00:35:14 Speaker 2
We’re doing ine We’re all about done, Anyway, in this particular case, it was really
the mistake. Thanks. The mistake that was made was that the buyer agent just
handed the keys to the buyers and said, “Just move your stu in the garage. Don’t
do anything until Monday.” Didn’t supervise what went on with the house. Well,
Buyers decided since they were going to go ahead and remodel bathrooms and
kitchen anyway, they’d just get a head start over the weekend. And started tearing
apart the bathroom, tearing apart the kitchen. Went to Home Depot and Lowe’s,
Racked up huge credit card bills at Home, Depot and Lowe’s buying all the stu they
were going to put in. Put in the garage with the rest o their stu. Monday morning
underwriting picks up the loan or the last inal approval, does their last credit
check, And now all o a sudden, they’ve got all these new credit dings and their debt
- to- income ratios. Now was then all out o whack.
00:36:12 Speaker 2
And they no longer qualiied or the loan. They can’t close, so closing didn’t happen.

They got rejected or the loan, but they’d already done physical damage to the
property. Listing agent got sued or letting them move in. Buying agent got sued
or not supervising the transer o the property. O course, the buyers themselves
got sued. For the damage they’d done to the property, buyers o course had given
up their apartments, so they got nowhere to go. But they didn’t own the house; it
was a huge mess. I have only once had clients put their stu in the house beore
over the weekend, and it was within an indemnity agreement, and all and that was
it.
00:37:10 Speaker 2
We put their stu in the garage and that was it. You go stay somewhere else. I have
paid or um portable, you know, one o those pods on the ront on the street in
ront o us, A new construction and and it was a military move, and the military
movers got there beore the construction was done. So we just moved all their stu
into storage out ront or ive days. I they don’t own it, don’t let them in it.
00:37:38 Speaker 2
Don’t just hand the keys and say, “Good luck. I got to go to dinner.” Supervise that
transer. The last one down here, I’ve also run into changes during the transaction
where the seller makes alterations to the properties, like things like walking o with
a mantle, changing the lights.
00:38:07 Speaker 2
Um, anything like that. I it’s a an Airbnb with short term rentals, new rentals have
to be approved by the buyer. The buyer has what’s considered equitable title, has a
right to the property and needs to know what’s going on.
00:38:38 Speaker 1
Do you have any other questions? All.
00:38:52 Speaker 2
Right. It’s just the two o us, so I’m gonna I’ve got to scan some. Let me do this. Stop
share And.
00:39:14 Speaker 1
Oop, hold on. Wrong button.

