2025 Apr 9 Short Sales - How to Buy &
Sell w Marty
2026-08-11 14:33:10

00:03:37 Speaker 1
Okay. Paula, I dig your uh Zoom name, Golden Girl Paula. Dallin, yours is great too. I
mean not everyone can call themselves Dallin Owens and get away with it. So that’s
awesome. Morning Heather. Happy Zoom day everybody. Okay.
00:04:06 Speaker 1
All right, let’s go with short sales. So, um, This is hopeully going to be a money making opportunity that, that nobody on this in this training will have to shy away
rom because you’ll know you’ll be short sale experts. You’ll be able to capture that.
Um, uh Wendy, Did you do any short sales when they were all the rage ten years
ago, iteen years ago? All right. So some o this will be old hat or you.
00:04:35 Speaker 2
I'm excited to see what’s changed.
00:04:38 Speaker 1
Well, so ar not much has changed, And I say so ar because we’re just barely
starting to see short sales again. So let me let me set that stage or a second. So
right ater the two thousand seven, two thousand eight crash is actually when I got
licensed. Craig was licensed in oh, seven, and I was licensed in oh, eight. We just are
gluttons or punishment that way It was really un stu anyway. Shortly ater that,
ater the homes started losing so much value, People thought it was a good idea or
o necessity. They were abandoning properties to oreclosure, and their credit was
getting trashed. O course, Because they had a oreclosure and oten their taxes
would be messed up. Because when you have a oreclosure you either.
00:05:31 Speaker 1
Uh, i the bank actually orgives the debt, which is rare, you you realize that as
taxable income. Okay. And so now you have a tax bill at the end o the year. Most
oten the bank does not orgive that as debt. And uh they can actually come ater
you in a deiciency even ater the oreclosure. So i you owed 100, 000 and your
house was oreclosed on and it sold or 80, 000 then the bank is shy 20 grand right?
Plus they’ve got all those legal expenses or, Doing the oreclosure, They can come
ater you or twenty grand, plus whatever their expenses were relative to the
oreclosure. So sometimes.

00:06:09 Speaker 2
They were orgiving that, but you were still being taxed on it, right?
00:06:13 Speaker 1
Yes. Yeah, Sometimes they like I said, i they orget i they orgave part o the debt
and they did not come ater you or the deiciency, that is normally a taxable event.
That counts as income on your taxes. I they orgive the twenty grand yeah that that
counts as income. That’s how Uncle Sam sees it. Because you received the beneit o
the twenty grand when you bought the house, but then you were not required to
pay it back, so Uncle Sam sees that as income. So, so that was the way o the land,
you know, ten to iteen years ago. And those oreclosures and short sales persisted
even ater the market tanked and hit bottom and started to come back up. ;, you
would still have people.
00:07:00 Speaker 1
That were struggling because the value o their home was still a lot less than what
they owed. Because even though the market trough hit a trough in, God, I can’t
remember what it was twenty eleven? Does that sound about right?
00:07:14 Speaker 2
Yeah, I am thinking maybe twelve.
00:07:15 Speaker 1
Maybe twelve. Okay, that’s when it started to turn around. But it was still a ew
years. It was a handul o years, until like two thousand, thirteen, twenty ourteen is
about when we got back. Okay. So, so that was how many is that? That’s like six or
seven years o lots o oreclosures and lots o short sales. The majority o what was
on the market was still not short sale, but a solid quarter, a third, And in some areas,
close to hal o the listings were short sales or oreclosures. Today’s class is not
about oreclosures; it’s about short sales. So let’s let’s dive into that.
00:07:59 Speaker 1
First, what is a short sale? And I, you know, I am hoping that we can be we can all
participate here. To who wants to to give me a quick deinition o a short sale?
00:08:12 Speaker 3
You owe more than it’s worth.
00:08:14 Speaker 1
Yeah, you owe more thanum than the house will sell or. But or some reason you
need or want to sell the house. Okay, um maybe let’s say you owe, Uh, Let’s say you
owe ive hundred thousand and the house is probably worth and will sell or uh,
let’s say ive twenty ive. What do you think about that situation? Is that a short sale?
00:08:43 Speaker 2
You said it was worth ive.

00:08:45 Speaker 1
Let’s say it’ll sell or ive twenty ive and you owe ive hundred. Okay, there we go
Wendy. So Wendy says commissions and expenses. That could be a short sale and it
might not be. Don’t know. You know, depends on where all those numbers land.
Um, What could the agent or agents and the seller and even the buyer do to avoid a
short sale? In that case? We’re getting a little ahead o ourselves, but I just I want to
think about that or a second. Could they avoid it? Avoid a short sale? They could.
Yeah, possibly right? Wendy you’ve got I can tell you got one or two things on your
mind. What could be done to avoid the short sale?
00:09:25 Speaker 2
I mean, you could negotiate. Obviously, both agents could negotiate commissions.
00:09:31 Speaker 1
Can you guys hear Wendy’s comments? I’m not sure i the microphone’s picking that
up. Sorry. It’s okay. Anybody give me a thumbs up or a thumbs down? Are you able
to hear Wendy? Yes, I can hear her. All right, perect. Okay, thanks, Wendy. Please
continue So, you can negotiate commissions that could that could thin thin that
margin down? Yeah.
00:09:56 Speaker 2
Dr aw a blank on what the buyer could do. I’m sure. There’s a lot the buyer pay the.
00:10:02 Speaker 1
Closing costs.
00:10:03 Speaker 2
Yeah, they wouldn’t be asking or.
00:10:05 Speaker 1
What i the buyer doesn’t have enough cash to pay their own closing costs? Is there
another trick you could use sure there is you can. This isn’t done very oten right
now. But it still can work the the lender can actually pay the closing costs by i the
buyer’s willing to accept. A slightly higher interest rate. And the reason.
00:10:29 Speaker 2
And still not make it be a short sale? Correct. Oh, okay. Okay,
00:10:34 Speaker 1
And what I mean by that is the buyer’s lender, not the seller’s lender. The buyer’s
lender can do that.
00:10:39 Speaker 2
Okay, buyer’s lender, that’s where I’m like. That makes sense.
00:10:41 Speaker 1
Okay, So but let’s say none o that stu works out and you do your net sheet, and

it’s like ten grand short, no matter how hard you guys try and push and shove and
everything you’re probably going to be a short sale. Okay? So, um, And I you’re
going to need some orms, and there’s a process, and we’re we’re going to cover
that. But, um, let me stick to my notes here. What is a short sale? I I want to read.
It’s a short little paragraph in the Short Sale Disclosure, which is one o the orms
that we’ll get to in a little bit. Where is uh here it is okay uh let’s see Jenna.
00:11:22 Speaker 1
Could I talk you into reading that? It’s the yeah, it’s right there. Which one? Short
sale deined.
00:11:27 Speaker 3
Short sale, okay. The term short sale is used in the real estate business to describe a
situation where the current air market value o the property is less than the debt
owing against the property. In other words, the seller can’t sell the property unless
the creditors, Third, parties agree to accept a payment that is less than or short o
the amount. Actually owed to those third parties. The third parties may include
mortgage lenders, mortgage insurers, bankruptcy trustee, Trustees and ederal,
state and local taxing authorities such as the IRS or state tax commission or other
lien holders.
00:12:09 Speaker 1
Correct. There’s one more situation I want to throw into that. That is not a short
sale, but you might still need these orms. And that isum. Like a bankruptcy or other
third party that would need to approve the transaction. You’d still use the orms or a
version o them, okay? And i that situation arises, let me know and I’ll get the right
orms into your hands. Um uh bankruptcy is one example and there’s another one.
What am I thinking o? Oh, a probate probate situation. Okay? Sometimes, the
probate oicer or the probate, uh judge or attorney needs to approve a sale like
that.
00:12:48 Speaker 1
So anytime, there’s a third party that uh you know can approve or or needs to
approve transaction. You would want to use this process and these orms. The
process will be a little dierent. The orms will be the same or nearly the same.
Okay questions so ar? Okay why would a seller want to do a short sale?
00:13:19 Speaker 3
They have to move.
00:13:20 Speaker 1
They got to move? Yep.
00:13:23 Speaker 3
And I’m sure they ound it’s better than oreclosure, but yeah.

00:13:26 Speaker 1
Okay, yeah, they they have to move or some reason and it’s better than a
oreclosure. Let’s say, let’s say they don’t have to move, but they can’t aord to keep
making the payments. So I guess they do have to move. But, i they can’t aord to
keep making the payments, their only remedy is to sell the house, right? Or are
there other remedies i they can’t aord to make payments?
00:13:49 Speaker 3
There might be.
00:13:53 Speaker 1
They could rent it. They could they could rent it. That could be a potential remedy,
right? What else? They could possibly reinance. Depends, i i the current situation
is better than the than the situation they were in when they got that inancing in the
irst place. I don’t know how to make that green thing, disappear o my there we
go. Okay, um.
00:14:18 Speaker 1
Uh, let’s see. Oh, do you guys know what a loan modiication is?
00:14:22 Speaker 2
They’re better than they used to be, right?
00:14:24 Speaker 1
I hope so. I haven’t seen a lot o them lately. Never either. Okay, Jenna, you’re
nodding your head yes also. What what’s a loan modiication?
00:14:31 Speaker 3
Like they can maybe modiy your terms.
00:14:35 Speaker 1
Modiy your terms? Yep like what kind o what are you thinking o? Well,
00:14:39 Speaker 3
Let’s say i you missed a ew payments, sometimes, i you qualiy, they might be
able to like take those payments and put them on the end o your mortgage.
00:14:47 Speaker 1
Right, So instead o a three hundred and sixty month mortgage, maybe now you
have a three hundred and sixty our month mortgage. Something like that. Yeah. So
they’ll they’ll kind o catch you back up artiicially, right? But you still have to make
the payments going orward. Okay. How else might they modiy it? I’ve I’ve seen
them do what you just said Jenna put the payments on the end. But, then they
convert it rom a thirty year to like a orty year mortgage, which makes all the
payments lower a little bit, right? Um, Another thing I’ve seen them do is actually
cut the interest rate to to one or two percent, even depending on the situation and

maybe do all o the above. So so they can do modiications like that that can beneit
the homeowner. None o that really works i they got to move though. Okay, They’re
not going to do that i you are going to rent the house out.
00:15:44 Speaker 1
And i they do that, and you’re usually i they do a loan modiication, they will
actually make any rents you receive assignable to them. Meaning that i you rent
the house out in the uture, the tenant has to pay the rent directly to the mortgage
company. I did see that once. Yeah, you’ve seen that? Yeah. Okay, so those are all
ways to avoid a short sale. One more way to avoid a short sale: Actually, I am going
to name two more, and then we’ll keep going on short sales. Two more ways to
avoid short sale is to you can do what’s called a deed in lieu o oreclosure. Anybody
know what that is? Wendy’s nodding her head.
00:16:27 Speaker 3
Give it back to the mortgage company or give it back to them,
00:16:30 Speaker 1
Yes, Yeah. You say look.
00:16:35 Speaker 1
Correct It’s a little better on your credit, You usually suer much less o a deiciency
than a oreclosure because the mortgage company doesn’t have nearly as many
legal expenses. There are still legal expenses, but they’re much lower. You’ll save
yoursel like ten grand or more by doing a deed in lieu rather than letting the bank
oreclose on you. And one more way to avoid a short sale or a oreclosure is to do a
bankruptcy, okay? And I am not going to get into that ; I am not a bankruptcy
attorney ; I don’t know that stu, but.
00:17:07 Speaker 1
All o those could be alternatives to oreclosures or short sales. Okay, Now let’s say,
though, that short sale is the thing to do because it’s easier on your credit than a
oreclosure. And ultimately, it will cost you less than a oreclosure because the
deiciency will be much lower, et cetera. And I think I just said it’ll be easier on your
credit. I did say that. Your credit does still take a hit, and we’ll talk about that in a
minute. Um, let’s see. Any other reasons that someone would want to do a short
sale as a seller? Those are the main ones. All right. Why would a mortgage company
want to do a short sale?
00:17:56 Speaker 2
It keeps it on their books. I mean, it’s not there’s a lot less hassle. I don’t know how
to explain that.
00:18:03 Speaker 1
There is a lot less hassle, Um, because they they usually don’t have to hire a
oreclosure attorney. For example, Most mortgage companies that operate in Utah

will hire one o two major oreclosure attorneys in the state. Okay, There’s one
Holiday and Watkins in Salt Lake. And there’s Lunord I think is one o the other
major ones. Yeah. And it costs them many many dollars to do that. And with a short
sale they don’t have to do that.
00:18:35 Speaker 1
So the bank likes it because it will head that o. The bank also likes to do a short
sale because usually the homeowner will stay in the house and continue to care or
the house until things wrap up. Unlike a oreclosure, oten the seller will be
disgruntled or, the seller, The homeowner will be disgruntled and angry and yeah,
trash the house, or oten steal things rom the house. For example, you’ve seen this,
right? They’ll steal appliances. Yeah. Oh, doorknobs. Yeah, copper, right? Wiring.
They’ll steal stu rom their own house. So again, a bank usually likes it because o
that. That’s why a bank or mortgage company would want to do a short sale. But,
they don’t You can’t just raise your hand and say, I’d like to do a short sale, please.
And the bank just says, okay, You know that’s not how it works.
00:19:32 Speaker 1
That’s right. So we’ll we’ll get to that process in a second. Um, actually let’s let’s kind
o go there. What’s the process like? So, i you’re having trouble making your
payments, and you’re communicating with the mortgage company, who are you
usually what department are you usually communicating with? Loss mitigation. Not
quite close though we’re going to get there.
00:19:54 Speaker 2
Who did you say? Loss mitigation. That’s okay that’s right, I was going to say to you,
so yeah, there’s something prior to that. Yes,
00:20:03 Speaker 1
We’re going to talk about lost mitigation. So you’reum but I in the meantime, I put
the clue up on the screen. Oh.
00:20:11 Speaker 3
Loan servicing department.
00:20:11 Speaker 1
Loan servicing department that’s excellent. Oh that’s right. Well done.
00:20:14 Speaker 2
Okay, okay, it didn’t used to apply, but everybody has that now.
00:20:18 Speaker 1
Yeah. So there’s a loan servicing department. This is the same company that you call
when when they post your payment late. And it wasn’t late, and you could. Go to
igured out or you didn’t get your ten, ninety eight on time. And so you are calling
them or whatever the issue is okay. These are the same olks that handle um late

payments and late notices and notices o deault, uh and all that jazz. This all goes
through the loan servicing department. The loan servicing department has an arm
that handles oreclosures. They handle all that kind o stu. Okay.
00:20:55 Speaker 1
So, they are going to this is this is how the loan servicing department likes to work.
Okay, they deal with all the oreclosure stu, uh, they document stu as long as
that documentation serves them. Is that true?
00:21:11 Speaker 2
It’s based on how long your phone call lasts.
00:21:13 Speaker 1
Oh yeah, yeah. I did not know that. Sure, that might makes total explains some
things doesn’t it? Yeah so theyum, They cost the loan servicing department costs
the investor money. It doesn’t make them money, it costs them money. So the the
quicker they can get you o the phone and get to the next caller, the more money
they save. So they actually incentivize most most companies do this. They
incentivize the reps based on how many calls they can get in per hour, and they win
prizes, even things like that. Okay, uh so they’re not your advocate.
00:21:51 Speaker 1
That’s the picture I am trying to paint. And, they’re not going to release any
inormation to you i you are not the borrower, unless you jump through whatever
hoops they’ve got. Most o them have a orm, some kind o authorization. Yeah, at
the very beginning o the process, They used to do it by voice, and they would make
notes in the system, But very quickly, they stopped doing that and they made the
borrower sign a orm. And a lot, it’s not always like this, but a lot o them have to be
wet signed, meaning they won’t accept a digital signature. Which is unny to me
because you can you can buy a house now on a digital signature. You can get a
mortgage on a digital signature, but you can’t authorize it anyway. That’s that’s
neither here nor there. Yeah, that’s just what their rules are. It’s usually a huge
department with thousands o employees. It would.
00:22:49 Speaker 1
Be a miracle i you got the same person twice. Okay, we’re not talking about um,
you know Bingham Bank or or something like that. We’re talking about you know i
Bingham Bank originated your mortgage, Guess what they sold it, they sold the
servicing to Wells Fargo, okay, or Bank o the West, or something like that. These
um huge companies that do loan servicing. So you are not going to talk to the same
person twice. Um now let’s say you jump through their hoops You sign their
authorization, or rather your borrower, your client signs the loan servicing
department’s authorization orm and you send it in. At, this point you should start
talking to your seller about the act that the only thing you can guarantee with a
short sale, is that something unreasonable will happen. Yeah.

00:23:46 Speaker 1
In this case, that looks like you sign the orm, you send it in, And three days later,
because they told you it would take twenty our hours to process. So three days
later, You call and check on it, and they have no idea what you are talking about.
Okay. So, you do it again and you check on it. Two days later, ive days later, they
have no idea You know You’ll send it into them, three or our times beore it sticks.
Okay, Um We used to ax these things in Do you remember And It would I I
imagined in my head. Like a whole ream o paper sitting on top o their ax
machine. Yeah, now it’s usually emailed or sometimes even mailed in. They don’t do
axes anymore, thank heaven. So it’s a little crazy that irst stage, which is kind o
arguably the simplest stage, is sometimes the hardest one to get through. Okay,
what you really want to do is get out o the loan servicing department.
00:24:44 Speaker 1
And talk to which department? The loss mitigation department. Okay, and I’m
mentioning these because o something that we’ll talk about in a second. You might
have a oreclosure and a short sale happening at the same time. And we’ll talk more
about that in a minute, but so you’ll have these two departments that don’t really
talk to each other. And one o them’s working on a oreclosure and the other one’s
loss mitigation handling your short sale. And let’s say you’ve got the short sale
approved, Well, I’m jumping the gun. I’ll save that or a minute later. But let’s see.
Okay, so loss mitigation department, what they look like is they protect the lender
against losses. They’re not in charge o servicing the investment anymore. They’re in
charge o minimizing losses. And these guys are they suer rom what I call $ 10 an
hour syndrome. Okay, they got a stack o iles 100 deep on their desk.
00:25:42 Speaker 1
They don’t care about you. They don’t care about the seller. Their job is to minimize
losses, and they have ormulas that they ollow. And they’re just they’re order takers
most o the time. And again, These are not i you got the loan rom, you know
Bingham Bank around the corner, these are these don’t work or Bingham Bank.
You know um they work or the the loan servicer, just not in the servicing
department in the loss mitigation department. The good news is, It’s usually a much
smaller department. So with this, it actually makes sense to keep a conversation
log. You should do that really the irst time you talk to the loan servicing
department. But, it will especially beneit you in the process. I you keep a simple
conversation log on a Word document or just on a piece o paper, it doesn’t matter.
The name o the person you talked to, what time it was and what was discussed.
00:26:40 Speaker 1
What expectations were set, what promises were made, what was requested and
what was provided. Okay? So just some brie details about the conversation. The
reason or that is because you’ll have the same problem that I talked about with the
loan servicing department. You’ll send in something that they requested. And a

week later, they are still waiting or you to send that in. Say okay, I sent it to this
email address on this date as requested by, you know, John Smith. When I talked to
him on the phone at nine, orty two a m yesterday, okay. Um, you know I even got a
response. I got an acknowledgement rom so and so. You know whatever you are
gonna you are gonna lay all that stu out. I you do that, okay, I am telling you that
stu not so much to protect you because, you are not really taking a lot o risk here
as an agent. Um, But what it will do is it will make the short sale process actually
accelerate by a huge actor. Okay.
00:27:38 Speaker 1
Instead o taking six months, you could cut that down to a third o that. It’ll take
sixty days maybe instead o six months i you ollow this. Every time you have a
conversation with someone, the way I used to do it is you would start by saying, “Hi,
how are you doing? I am Marty rom Primary Estate Experts. I am calling because I
had a conversation yesterday with so and so at this time, who said, I should do this
ater I had a conversation with so. And so the day beore that at this time.” You
basically Lay out how many reaking times you’ve yeah, you’ve talked to their
department about the same issue. Usually when you do that, The person that you’re
talking to is much more incentivized to own whatever the situation is. And i they
don’t, they’re extremely happy to pass you up to their lead. You ollow me? Once
you get their lead, don’t let go o their lead. Okay? Get that extension number and
say, hey, okay. Thank you so much or helping me today.
00:28:36 Speaker 1
Um, I’ll get that document that you requested to you, uh, you know, by tonight. I
would like to ollow up with you tomorrow. Uh, what time can I call you back
tomorrow? This kind o stu. Okay. Um and you just keep the same notes because
even the leads have little teams o leads. They they’re called leads. They’re not really
leads. They’re just like next level up okay? And uh so then you’ll say then you’ll start
the whole thing over again, I had a conversation here, had this conversation, then
that one, that one. And now I’m talking to you. And you’re proessional and patient
the whole time. But, you’re clear on the act that uh uh, That you expect better help
than this. And uh You know You You can push your weight around a little bit Okay?
But, but keep in mind These guys are not getting customer service scores. They’re
the loss mitigation department. They don’t care about you or the situation. So keep
that in mind Be a little patient.
00:29:31 Speaker 1
But irm at the same time. Okay, does that make sense? Do you ollow that?
Absolutely. Okay. So, this is how to navigate the process and I’m just giving you the
basics, but that’s probably honestly, The conversation log was the most important
tool that I learned to use doing short sales. That saved so much time. And as ar as
timerames go, my shortest short sale that I ever did only took two days. And that’s
because the seller had a buyer that was in, and the buyer had just gotten approved.

The listing agent told me exactly what the terms were o the approval. We quickly
wrote it, and those terms were acceptable to my buyer. We quickly wrote an oer
that matched exactly the terms that the short sale bank was approving, and that
buyer had bailed. Okay, and so we just snuck right in.
00:30:29 Speaker 1
Yep, And they, the only dierence was a change o the name as ar as the lender
was concerned. And I said okay, and they just continued with it. We got it approved
in two days. It’s crazy. My longest one took over a year to get approved. Okay, most
o them were six to eight months. Um yes, This go around, there are ar ewer short
sales, and so I anticipate that you have one. It’ll probably be two to our months.
Um another major dierence is that that Um, That downturn in prices lasted like
were just talking about or six plus years. It took rom the dip to the recovery. And
this last go around, We we started to dip in prices April o twenty two and were
were already We’re already above where were in April o twenty twenty two So I.
Don’t expect that there will be a huge volume o short sales like there was last time.
However, anything can happen. You know that right?
00:31:28 Speaker 1
Um, okay, And I want to hit a dierent point why an agent would want to become
an expert on short sales. But we’ll get there; we’re almost there. Okay, why would a
buyer want to participate in a short sale? What do you got, Craig?
00:31:46 Speaker 4
Why buyer would yeah back in the day usually would get a discount.
00:31:52 Speaker 1
That’s right. Okay,
00:31:54 Speaker 4
I don’t know i that’s holding true today because I haven’t looked at done analyses
on the. In the current short sale market.
00:31:59 Speaker 1
I predict that i it doesn’t hold true right this second, it will within six months.
00:32:05 Speaker 4
So there should be some level o discount. Yes. Well, ewer buyers are going to go
ater them.
00:32:10 Speaker 1
That’s the key. Why is that Craig?
00:32:12 Speaker 4
They don’t want to mess around with. But you don’t know i the price is going to be
approved, you don’t know how long it’s going to take or the approval.

00:32:18 Speaker 2
Right There’s enough.
00:32:20 Speaker 4
Inventory that they can ind something else Yeah, There is tons o inventory out
there. And. The other thing, too, is like that short sale addendum. You maybe have
already gone over it.
00:32:29 Speaker 1
Not yet, but we okay.
00:32:30 Speaker 4
It gives the seller a get out o jail ree card.
00:32:32 Speaker 1
Yeah, the seller can actually cancel. Yeah,
00:32:34 Speaker 4
And you can’t stop them. And or any reason, they don’t even have to wait. They
could just like, yeah, we’re choosing a dierent path right? Which is the only time
that a seller sort o has that get out o jail ree card That’s right That’s,
00:32:46 Speaker 1
Right So. There’s a lot o question marks Thanks Craig A lot o question marks uh or
a buyer with the short sale, and it’s a pain in the butt. Um. And it could be a lengthy
process, all o those things. So, uh, that’s why usually you can get a short sale at a
discounted price. Now the last go around the discount amounted to our to six
percent, usually our to ive percent o o market price. But that doesn’t sound like
a lot unless you’re talking about a ive hundred thousand dollar house. How much is
ive percent o o ive hundred thousand dollar house?
00:33:26 Speaker 1
Twenty ive grand, okay. So, you could get a ive hundred thousand dollars house
or our seventy ive ish. And like we were just talking, I don’t know i that’s going to
hold true immediately since we’re just getting back into short sales, but i it doesn’t
right this minute, I believe it will soon. Um, okay, great. So we just kind o talked
about the why part o that as well and Craig hit. On this just now a little bit, what
should a buyer be aware o when their oer to buy a short sale is accepted? What
should a buyer be aware o when they’re when they’re oering a short sale is
accepted by the seller?
00:34:13 Speaker 4
It’s not accepted.
00:34:16 Speaker 1
It’s not accepted.

00:34:17 Speaker 4
That’s right.
00:34:18 Speaker 1
So do you have a contract?
00:34:22 Speaker 1
Somebody say yes because you have a contract. Yes, But it, but part o the contract
says that the a third party has to weigh in on it. Okay, So there’s some inluence that
the bank can yield and will I said yield. I meant wield, sorry, There’s inluence that
the bank will have on that contract. The bank gets to weigh in on it and they will.
Uh, okay. So that’s one thing. Um let’s talk about a couple others what the approval
process is. Okay, you can lay it out or them briely, like I just did. Um, and I highly
recommend that little phrase that I mentioned beore. You tell you know Mister
Misses Buyer, the only thing I can guarantee you with this short sale process. Is that
something unreasonable will happen. Okay?
00:35:07 Speaker 2
You might get oreclosed beore you get to buy it.
00:35:09 Speaker 1
Yeah, you could you could get everything approved. Um, you could have clear to
close. You can even go to the signing table as the buyer and it’ll get oreclosed on.
The you know the the day you’re supposed to close on it. Uh, I had that happen I
think one time. And it’s yucky, it doesn’t make sense. The bank is going to lose a lot
more money by oreclosing on it than they would have with your short sale.
00:35:34 Speaker 3
Do they do that because they think they can sell it or more?
00:35:39 Speaker 2
No. I think there’s a lack o communication rom one department to another.
00:35:43 Speaker 1
Yes, it’s mostly lack o communication and coordination. They’re just not set up to
do that. A oreclosure is a sure thing or them, And a short sale isn’t with a short
sale, A buyer can ail to close at the last minute or yeah, or a seller could have an
issue, you know, whatever. And so they are once the oreclosure process starts, it’s
really hard. You can do it. In act, it’s requent that you can stop a oreclosure i
you’re deep into a short sale process, but you have to really be on it and I.
00:36:18 Speaker 1
Can help i that comes up. I can help you wade through that. But that can be really
rustrating to a buyer, right? Yeah, they’ve already spent, you know, maybe they’ve
got the moving van loaded. You know, that kind o stu can happen. That’s another
reason buyers could potentially not want to do a short sale, which is again why

short sales eventually allow allowing you allowing Excuse me, Allow you to get a
discount on the price because ewer buyers are willing to do them. Um, let’s see. So
once once a buyer gets one under contract and accepted by the seller, now that
Relpsi is hopeully going to be sent to the bank or approval. And now we’re sitting
or two days to a year or more, Or more likely two to our months, something like
that. While we’re waiting or the bank to approve it. What should the buyer do in the
meantime?
00:37:19 Speaker 1
Yeah, Probably go look or other properties.
00:37:23 Speaker 1
Yeah, Because here’s how it’ll work: the mortgage company will approve the short
sale, and then the buyer has a chance to say," Yeah, never mind. Okay. I ound
something else." Maybe the buyer’s even closed on a property since then. Okay,
now there are we don’t have time to get into them, but there are some strategies
that you can use along the way to just like the situation where. Where I helped, and
it was actually my buyer was actually one o our agents that’s here. Um, Helped him
because the um the buyer on that transaction had closed on something way
beorehand, but did notiy the approving mortgage company. Rather, I should say
the listing agent did notiy the approving mortgage company because they weren’t
required to, and they wanted that the mortgage company, what’s that? They wanted
the approval. Yes.
00:38:16 Speaker 1
That’s exactly right. They wanted that rep seat to work its way all the way through
the approval process so that all those pins were knocked down. And then they could
just replace it with one. Okay, so okay, let’s see. We’ll talk about why an agent would
want to list a short sale in a moment. One o the things to keep in mind. Oh, I orgot
to mention this one here artiicially low list prices. So why would, in light o what
you have learned in the last 35 minutes, why would a short sale listing be listed as
artiicially low? I you’ve got one that’s worth 500, you could probably pick it up or
475 as a short sale. Why would somebody list it at 399?
00:39:08 Speaker 2
Multiple oers. I mean is that.
00:39:10 Speaker 1
Yep they could get multiple oers on it. Is that. Absolutely. Gets bid up. Any other
reason?
00:39:21 Speaker 2
I'm sure you got one. I.
00:39:25 Speaker 3
Have. They would be, I don’t know. Say it, say it. Um, paying less commission?

Paying less commission?
00:39:35 Speaker 1
I hadn’t thought o that. That could be a reason, but i i it’s really worth 500 and
they’re listing it at 399, what’s probably going to happen as ar as oers go? They’ll
get lots o oers, and where will the oers be?
00:39:48 Speaker 3
Higher than 399.
00:39:49 Speaker 1
Yeah, they’ll probably be closer to somewhere between 475 and 500. So why would
you bother doing that? Why not list it at ive ten and drop it to ive. Oh, ive, i you
don’t get oers, And then drop it to ive, oh two or ive hundred or our ninety nine?
Why would you go crazy low?
00:40:11 Speaker 2
Just to get an oer in. As you get a lot o people in.
00:40:16 Speaker 1
Say that again, Wendy.
00:40:17 Speaker 2
Just to get the oer in, to submit it, to start the process. Yeah.
00:40:22 Speaker 1
Yeah. Get the oer in to submit it to start the process. Then once the bank goes
through their process and gives you an approval amount, which may be quite
dierent rom the oer you submitted, then you’ve got an approval amount. You
can actually say on the MLS, this list price has been approved by the bank, and
that’s a big deal. It suggests that there will be ewer question marks or the buyer
about what price it’s going to end up at, but also we’re down the road with the
process and probably not guaranteed, but probably the process will be much
shorter. Okay, so watch out or those artiicially low list prices on a short sale. Okay,
Why would an I got to do this kind o quick because we need some time to cover
the exciting orms? But why would an agent.
00:41:12 Speaker 1
Want to list a short sale or become a short sale expert? Like there were there were
agents who made this. No, I’ll give it away i I say that. Yes, it was it was their niche.
Yes, so that that’s a main reason because it can be a solid niche. There was a couple
in the brokerage that Craig and I grew up in that did this as their main thing. That’s
all they did was short sales and they were good at it. But it took them a lot longer to
earn a commission. Okay, so instead o a thirty day or sixty day process, it was now
a six to eighteen month process. Okay or earning a commission. Um and the
commissions. One o the one thing we haven’t talked about is one o the things that

uh short that I excuse me, A mortgage company will do with the approval process is
they will oten uh, they’ll give you haircut on the commissions. Yes.
00:42:06 Speaker 1
So the short sale company can actually, or excuse me, the mortgage company can
actually dictate a maximum amount o commissions. What was common back then,
it was very common to do six percent back then all day long, three and three all day
long. And the mortgage companies would just lat do ive percent total. And there’s
no negotiating that. It was take it or leave it. And, so you’ll oten see in a short sale,
it says that you know, inal commission amount will be split. Fity ity between
buyer and seller’s agents, or something like that. Ledy, that sounds amiliar to you, I
am sure. Yes. And, so even the agents weren’t sure until the end exactly what their
commissions were. Yeah, I had one agent that signed a seller up at seven percent,
anticipating that his commission would be that the total commission would be cut
to six. It didn’t happen that way; it was cut rom seven to ive, but he was hopeul.
Um okay.
00:43:03 Speaker 1
So why would an agent want to do that? There’s the niche, right? The niche.
00:43:07 Speaker 2
Weren’t they other agents paying them upront to do the short sale?
00:43:11 Speaker 1
Oh, I orgot about that, Wendy. That’s really true. There were agents who would
take a short sale listing, but they were not and had no desire to be short sale
experts. And. So they would actually pay a ee to another agent to go through the
process o doing the conversation log and doing all that rigmarole on their behal
or on their client’s behal. So, yeah, there were short sale experts that were
servicing other agents’ short sales. Absolutely, I totally orgot about that. Yeah, that
was a thing. Another reason that you would want to really master the technique o
doing short sales is sometimes you’ll have a client. Imagine this that you really want
to help, okay. And you want to help them uh.
00:43:57 Speaker 1
Be able to save money, save on taxes, save on their credit, Et cetera, by doing a
short sale rather than dealing with the oreclosure or deed in lieu. Or rather than
sending them to an agent who says they know how to do short sales and really
doesn’t. I, you hire an agent who says, I’ll do your short sale or you, and they don’t
know what they’re doing. There’s a much higher chance that that poor client will
end up in a oreclosure than i they hire. You who does know what you’re doing.
00:44:27 Speaker 1
Okay, we talked about the process a bunch. Let’s uh let’s let’s go quick into the
orms, the exciting part. Okay, because this this it’s it’s not exciting but it is

important. So we’re going to go to orms where are my orms? Here they are. Okay
so the irst one we’re going to do is the short sale disclosure. These are all in the
MLS and I believe they are all in um.
00:44:58 Speaker 1
Brokermint as well, but at least they are all in the MLS. Okay, so the short sale
disclosure this goes to buyer or seller; it doesn’t matter. Okay, This is the irst I’ve
got them in order o how you would use them um in your packets, but and I’ll cover
them in that same order here. But I have one o these is out o order; don’t worry
about that. So anyway, the short sale disclosure it basically Covers some o the stu
that we’ve been covering just now. Um, it gives them a heads up. For example,
section three right in the middle, it says or example, The third parties may not
permit the seller to pay or any o the buyer’s closing costs. You know each
mortgage company makes up their own rules regarding short sales. This a common
one. You may have a buyer that, that says, yeah, I’ll pay you 500, but I want you to
cover 10 closing costs. And the mortgage company is going to say this approved,
except we’re not.
00:45:56 Speaker 1
Letting the seller pay ten grand at closing costs. For some reason, that’s a common
one. Uh, let’s see. And this one delays in response time. We already sort o talked
about that. Write to the third parties to encourage additional oers. So it’s possible
that the uh the third parties, you know, the banks Here we go Where are we? Where
are we Anyway, the banks may require the seller Oh here we go, The seller to keep
the property on the market and to send all oers to the bank or approval. It’s also
possible that the mortgage company will require the seller to only send one oer to
the bank at a time, okay? Just each one has their own rules. So this just discloses
that there may be dierent ways that it’ll be dealt with. This is a reminder o what
Craig just said.
00:46:51 Speaker 1
The buyer or the seller can cancel at any time up to the third party approval or the
third party approval deadline, okay, whichever happens irst. So that’s something
that’s weird. As ar as tax and legal consequences o a short sale or taking steps to
avoid a short sale, please ollow this, you know, encourage them to consult a tax or
legal expert. You are neither o those. That’s very, very important because people
people are vulnerable in a short sale. And i it goes upside down and you didn’t
handle that correctly, when when somebody eels like they have to sue, they sue
everybody. Their attorneys will encourage them to sue everybody: buyer’s agent,
seller’s agent, buyer’s brokerage, seller’s brokerage and everybody else involved
regardless o whatever you think.
00:47:49 Speaker 1
Whatever they think you did wrong or did not do wrong, the attorneys are going to
ind something. So please don’t give them legal or tax advice, okay? Okay, next one

we got. And please break in and ask questions because I have to try to cover three
or our more o these and not a lot o time. And I want to give you at least an
introduction to them. So i there are questions, I’m not going to probably stop and
encourage questions, but I still want you to ask them. Fair. Okay. Okay, so we talked
about the short sale disclosure. The next one that you’re probably going to deal
with i you’re on the selling, the listing side is the addendum to the ERS, the
addendum to the listing agreement. And, this rankly, says a lot o the same things
as the short sale disclosure says at the top. But it also warns them.
00:48:43 Speaker 1
That the one thing we didn’t talk about. Okay, with the loss mitigation department,
When you submit a short sale to them or get the paperwork started with the
mortgage company beore you put it on the market to get a short sale going. Um,
Part o the approval process will be that usually, they collect inancial inormation
rom the seller who is their borrower, and they make them qualiy or the short sale.
Which I’m kind o chuckling about because it’s actually kind o similar to when they
qualiied to get the mortgage in the irst place. The dierence is, in this case, they
have to prove that they can’t aord to keep the mortgage. Okay, So they’re going to
ask or tax returns and bank statements and pay stubs and all that kind o stu that
you’re used to when they’re qualiying to get the mortgage, To prove that they can
no longer aord it. Does that make sense?
00:49:37 Speaker 1
Well, it kind o doesn’t, but it sort o does too, right? Okay. So, this warns your seller
that the mortgage company is going to ask or all o that documentation. It gives us
authorizations to collect and share inormation on their behal. That’s what section
three is. Section our is kind o the all the things, All the gooy stu that has to do
with a short sale that they should know about. They’re not going to receive any
proceeds at closing, most likely. Sometimes they can receive a thousand, but it’s
usually zero. Let’s see. In act, they may even be required depending on the
approval. They may, let’s say they submit bank statements and stu and tax returns
and the mortgage company igures out. Okay, They really can’t aord to keep this
mortgage, but I see that they have eight thousand in the bank. We’re going to make
them bring ive thousand to closing.
00:50:34 Speaker 1
Okay, that happens, right? You’ve seen that. Yeah,
00:50:36 Speaker 2
I should say okay you’re getting this much back on your taxes. We want this much
o it. That’s right.
00:50:42 Speaker 1
That’s right. Remember these guys are not interested in helping your client. These
guys are interested in minimizing the loss or mitigating the loss to the mortgage

company. Uh, okay. Let’s see it warns them that there may beum collection eorts
or. Or a deiciency judgment against them ater the short sale process because
remember the mortgage company is let holding this bag without getting paid. So
um uh, let’s see it may go into oreclosure during the short sale process. That’s
that’s in there too. 4b right? Uh, let’s see 4C a short sale transaction may have a
negative impact on seller’s credit. So oreclosure is is bad on credit.
00:51:30 Speaker 1
Short sale is less bad on their credit. Okay, You can your credit will recover rom a
short sale aster than it will recover rom a oreclosure. And, it doesn’t what’s tricky
is it doesn’t ever show on the credit report as a short sale. It typically shows as uh
settled or paid in ull or less than original balance or something like that. Okay, and
that’s the part that will usually bang up your credit. Um Let’s see. We already talked
about that. We already talked about that. It reminds them, 4E, That there are other
potential options that they have or avoiding a short sale or a oreclosure, okay?
And it runs through those. Those are the things we already talked about. The
company, meaning us, we don’t have control over the decisions o the third parties.
They’re going to decide what they’re going to decide. We’re here to help acilitate
the process but it is not up to us.
00:52:30 Speaker 1
And let’s see. And we talked about the brokerage ees may change, you know,
depending on what the third parties approve. Okay, again, we’ve got another
warning to consult with legal counsel and tax proessionals. And section ive says
that again. You get the idea? This is a big deal, okay? People who are doing a short
sale like I said are typically they’re vulnerable. Because, it’s a vulnerable situation,
and they’re not in. This is not probably what they planned when they bought the
house. Okay, okay, we did that one and that one. Now let’s talk about when you get
an oer or you make an oer. Um, i the oer does not include this short sale
addendum, you are going to counter that oer with this. Okay, just like you would i
uh i you are selling a house.
00:53:28 Speaker 1
Or your kid, and they don’t include the disclosure o interest, you’re going to
counter with the disclosure o interest. You’re going to use the same technique to
include a short sale addendum in the repre. Do not accept a repre on a short sale
without a short sale addendum, whether you’re on the buy side or the seller side. I’ll
say it again, : Don’t let your buyer or seller accept a repre on a short sale without
this short sale addendum. It’s very important. Okay. So the irst parts, uh basically
cover the same stu we’ve been covering. It’s a it’s a little education about the short
sale and the short sale process. Okay. So I’m not going to go through that again.
Um let’s see section three basically set acknowledges that the mortgage company
may or may not require that multiple oers be sent into them. In act, some o
them require that they not be sent in. It just depends on the mortgage company.

00:54:25 Speaker 1
So that acknowledges that we’ll be ollowing their instructions, And it doesn’t matter
what the buyer and seller want to do as ar as multiple oers. Let’s see. Okay,
section our is very important. So, we said that the short sale process can take many
months or it could be really quick or really long, and this says that hey, this contract
is good through this date. Okay? That’s the short sale approval deadline. We can
impose all the deadlines we want. It’s not going to do anything to inluence how
ast the mortgage company approves the short sale. But what this does is it says
this contract is not an eternal contract. This contract will lapse i the short sale is not
approved by X date. Does that make sense? Okay, okay, The next one is a short one
but it’s also important. This dictates when.
00:55:20 Speaker 1
Buyer and seller agree to have the earnest money deposited. I you’re on the sell
side, you want the irst box checked. I you’re on the buy side, you want the second
box checked. Why?
00:55:31 Speaker 2
So they don’t have to do it until it’s accepted. To approve it.
00:55:36 Speaker 1
Yeah, The buyer doesn’t have to write a check or whatever until the mortgage
company approves it. Why, would you want? Why would you care i you’re on the
sell side about getting a check early i the buyer has right to cancel? Anyway? So
what dierence does it make?
00:55:55 Speaker 2
It just seems more. I mean, more secure. Yeah,
00:56:02 Speaker 1
That’s exactly right. There’s an emotional tie that comes along with that. You are
more likely, even just a little bit, You are more likely to retain that buyer i there’s an
earnest money on or excuse me i there is earnest money on deposit. Okay? That
being said, It’s, you know, it doesn’t have to be a deal breaker. But i you’re the seller,
you preer the irst box, i you’re a buyer, you’ll preer the second box or there’s
another box, you can make up something else too. But talk to me beore use that
one, please. Okay, sellers, right to accept backup, backup oers this again may
depend on the mortgage company stipulations, but usually, you’re going to once
you accept a.
00:56:50 Speaker 1
A contract on your short sale listing, Usually you are going to put it in backup
status, and it’s going to be like short sale backup status. Okay, and you’ll continue to
receive oers. Whether the bank wants to see them or not depends on the bank,
depends on the mortgage company. Okay, And we talked about about already we

we mentioned the act that the buyer or the seller cancel the receipt ;, they cancel it
up to the. Short sale approval deadline or the actual short sale approval whichever
comes irst. Okay. Um let’s see I guess I am asking or questions. We don’t have a lot
o time let, but questions beore I move on, I got two more. Nope, okay. All right, all
right. So uh, let’s see, oh, I orgot the, the last part I wanted to mention is the
contract deadlines. Okay, these.
00:57:48 Speaker 1
Are this is again an addendum to the Repsy. So it doesn’t matter what’s on page six,
section twenty our o your Repsy. This will control. Okay? Some you can put dates
in there. In act, I probably would page six, section twenty our o the Repsy, but it
doesn’t matter. What will control is what’s here. Um You could also put back in the
day we used to say C addendum, okay, or CSS addendum C short sale, addendum
You can do it either way. And I just made these dates up. There’s nothing special
about these dates, except that with a in a short sale, these dates better be shorter
than they would be on a normal sale. Why?
00:58:29 Speaker 2
These dates here should be shorter?
00:58:30 Speaker 1
Yeah. Yeah, I, you shouldn’t you shouldn’t have a thirty day settlement deadline
most o the time or a two week inspection period or a ive day seller disclosure.
Why? Why Wendy?
00:58:45 Speaker 2
Because hopeully, I mean, can’t that already be?
00:58:48 Speaker 1
Yeah. You should have your stu together. Okay. By the time this gets approved,
you should have your stu together. The seller and the buyer, okay? That doesn’t
mean you’ve run an appraisal. It doesn’t mean you’ve already hired the inspector.
You should still have time in there or that, but you should not be scrambling at that
point. Yeah, yeah yeah yeah yeah okay. You you, buyer and seller can agree to
whatever schedule and dates they want to. But in general, i you’re on the buy side,
I would keep these shorter because you’ll have time. Okay, let’s do the backup
addendum. The backup addendum is actually very similar to our regular backup
addendum, but it has a ew extras. So let’s go to one point three additional backup
contracts. Okay, because seller and the third parties desire to minimize their
respective losses, we have the right to.
00:59:42 Speaker 1
Accept additional backup contracts. So there’s not just one backup oer, you can be
one o many backup oers on a short sale. That’s one dierence, okay? Uh let’s see
submission o prior repsee. This. So this says that the the primary repsee has

already been submitted to the third party or approval and that you will either be
submitted or not. Section 1.5 spells that out. Your backup contract may or may not
be submitted to the third party approver. Okay. Um, 1.6 just says what we’ve already
said, the the approving mortgage company may modiy the terms. Okay? And i the
approving mortgage company modiies the terms and the buyer or the seller, either
party don’t agree to them, you can you can bail. It’s you’re not obligated to you’re
not just subject to the mortgage company um.
01:00:39 Speaker 1
I you don’t agree to the mortgage company’s terms, then there’s going to be no
sale. But you’re not bound to their terms until, well, until the next orm. Okay? In
act, let’s go there next. Okay? The last orm I wanted to talk about - -. This is once
you actually get the short sale approval - - You’re going to get a letter rom the
mortgage company. And it’ll be like approval, third party approval letter or short
sale approval. I don’t know i they have dierent titles. There’s no standard title, But
you’ll get a letter rom the mortgage company that says it’s approved with these
conditions. Okay? And you’re going to attach it. In act, let me go through this little
by little here. Okay? Acknowledgment o third party approval. So it reerences
section two o the short sale, addendum about the third party approval.
01:01:35 Speaker 1
It says, according to that, We know there’s a third party and there’s an approval
deadline and all that jazz. And this says that, hey, guess what? As o today we got a
third party approval. It’s oicial notiication to the buyer that there is a third party
approval, which will activate a ew things in the contract. Not, the least o which is
those deadlines that we talked about in the short sale. Addendum. Okay?
01:02:04 Speaker 1
Okay, Once that happens and again, right here in the addendum, it says that the
short sale approver, the short sale approval letter is attached as exhibit A to this
addendum. Okay. And, then you’re going to clariy the new dates based on the
short sale approval date. Okay. And it’s possible that the short sale approval itsel
will modiy those dates. That’s pretty common too actually. We used to submit like
sixty day closings on a short sale, and they would requently get put at orty ive
days was a avorite timerame. Okay, but again, T here is no reason to go that long,
usually because everybody’s got their stu ready. So you clariy those dates, Buyer
and seller sign that now you have a much more normal contract to deal with. Now
you can take this thing to closing just like you normally would. You can you know
project.
01:03:03 Speaker 1
The closing time much more accurately because now you are just dealing with the
buyer’s lender. The seller’s lender has done their part as long as t here is no
oreclosure pending. I t here is a oreclosure, yeah, that’s something that you can
track okay one hundred percent o the time. You can track a pending oreclosure so

i you get a short sale, i you get a short sale transaction, call me I want to know
anyway okay Um, But especially i you ind out that there’s been a notice o deault
issued or anything else indicating that there might be a oreclosure, I want to talk.
Okay, because you can track it and you should track it. And many times it’s hard, but
we can usually do it. We can get the oreclosure orestalled with enough time to to
close on the short sale. Whew! That’s yeah. We just went through a lot o orms.
Okay? But I think we got it so.
01:03:59 Speaker 1
What are we? We’re 12:01. Not too bad, not too bad. Um, thank you. Okay, who’s
let? Oh, we still got Paula and Dallin. Well done you guys. Okayum what questions
do you guys have? We just covered a ton o groundum and i you guys have time to
stick around or a minute, I want to know what questions are on your minds about
short sales.
01:04:25 Speaker 3
I probably don’t have any. Until I’m there, then I’ll be calling you with all my
questions.
01:04:29 Speaker 1
Well, good. I’m hoping that’s the case. When you get a short sale or even a potential
short sale, I want you to call me. I want to talk about it. It’s yeah, it’s not a
requirement. I’m not saying you must go no, but but i yeah, i heavily invite you to
call me. Um okay, anything today,
01:04:52 Speaker 2
I lost my i had a team member. She quit all the short sales. I mean, she got out o
the business. Oh, an agent? Uh- huh.
01:05:01 Speaker 1
Oh boy, she was just ed up withultimatum members.
01:05:04 Speaker 2
Yeah, that hurt or a minute.
01:05:06 Speaker 1
Oh yeah, they’reum. yeah, i you are not prepared or how unreasonable they can
be, It can be really anguishing vexing They can be vexing, and so much respect to
the ice I can see both o their aces right now in my head The Swensons. The this
not yeah, Marianne. It’s not not the same Swensons who are in our oice. There is
also a husband and wie team that sort o work in our oice, the Swensons. But
yeah, Marianne Swenson, they were. She was in our brokerage and I orgot her
husband’s name because she’s the one who did most o the work with. Um oh, what
was it called? It just went out my head North Star North Star Realty and then they
rebranded to Integra Realty. But yeah, we were with North Star.

01:05:54 Speaker 1
Ron, it was Ron and Mary Ann Swenson. Yes. Yeah, they everything they had was
red. They dressed in red, their logo was in red, everything was red. Anyway, Hats o
to to agents who specialized in short sales back in the day because they were once
you knew what you’re doing, you could really make a career out o it, but they
weren’t easy to do. It was rewarding to do it. Your client was usually very, very
happy. One one other thing, one other heads up with short sales is. I you have a
savvy listing agent and you’re on the buy side, you’re not likely to get repairs done.
Why do you think that is on a short sale?
01:06:36 Speaker 3
Because they’re already at their limit.
01:06:38 Speaker 1
Yeah, Usually, the seller doesn’t have any money or they realize they’re not going to
get any more money out o the property. Yeah, there’s little point. They could save
on tax consequences or something like that, or collections later, but that’s usually
not where their mind is. There’s usually very little motivation or a seller to do
repairs on a short sale. I’m not saying it can’t happen, but it usually doesn’t. Okay.
Good stu. Hopeully that was useul i not exciting. Yeah, it was good. Okay,
excellent. Okay go get 'em! All right thanks you guys I’ll see ya.
01:07:19 Speaker 1
Go, Jenna. Go with the closing.

